ports—a theme that recurs throughout U.S. history.
This brief historical survey highlights not only the crucial developments that still undergird these industries but also the systems and work practices from an earlier era that no longer match today’s competitive requirements.
Other factors drove the development of mass retail as well.
Only in the 1980s, with the development of another system of mass distribution that includes new technology, new management methods, and new links to manufacturing—lean retailing—did the role of the buyer significantly diminish.
Development of the Progressive Bundle System
The dominance of PBS affects current developments in apparel manufacturing and employee management for two reasons.
Further, the knitting machine has been a key development in manufacturing technology.
The creation of a national highway system in the 1950s further fostered the development of mass retailing by opening vast new spaces in suburban malls.
These store-level investments were accompanied by major capital investments in central computer processing capacities, continuing development of store- and corporate-level software systems, and improvements in distribution operations.
Other development applications allow designers to begin with an actual garment and make appropriate changes to achieve the desired design or construction modifications.
In my three decades of teaching university courses in child development, I have come to know thousands of students, many of whom were parents or who became parents soon after completing my class.
As a byproduct of those experiences, parents repeatedly approached me with concerns about how to foster their child’s development in the early years.
At an even more fundamental level, contemporary parents have begun to doubt their own ecacy in their children’s development.
Second, information about child development disseminated to parents is increasingly voluminous but at the same time contradictory.
In view of these diculties, it is little wonder that so many American parents express a sense of powerlessness and inadequacy when it comes to aecting their children’s development.
3 An obvious solution to reconciling parents’ employment needs with young children’s rearing needs is to make high-quality, nonparental care, with characteristics known to promote healthy psychological development, widely available and aordable.
In a recent survey of parents whose children were enrolled in several hundred randomly chosen child-care centers across four states, over 90 percent believed that their preschoolers’ experiences were far better than experts in early childhood development judged those experiences to be.
8 Instead, positive, supportive parenting that endured, even when it marked a change from an early period of parental retreat or negative interaction, was linked to favorable child development, including persistence in problem solving, high self-esteem, socially skilled behavior, closer friendships, and better peer relationships.
Although the precise extent of family–work conﬂict in American culture is not clear, its presence and detrimental impact on parent-child interaction and children’s development are well founded.
Studies carried out during the 1970s and 1980s on the relationship of maternal employment to children’s development revealed many positive outcomes—higher self-esteem, better grades in school, more positive family and peer relations, and less gender-stereotyped beliefs.
17 But repeatedly, eective parenting mediated these favorable developments.
When employed parents spend generous amounts of time engaged with their child, they safeguard the child’s development.
Probably because it reduces work overload, part-time maternal employment is associated with better academic and social development than is full-time employment.
Precious few of these parenting manuals are grounded in the explosion of contemporary research on child development that is of signiﬁcant applied value.
27 The roots of these polarized perspectives can be found in centuries-old, dramatically opposing philosophies about the nature of children and child development.
The behaviorist presumption that development can be mechanically engineered by social input, guaranteeing brighter, socially more mature children, is not borne out by the evidence.
In the tradition of Rousseau, the psychoanalysts argued that powerful biological forces channel development through four psychosexual stages.
Swiss biologist Jean Piaget, twentieth-century giant of cognitive development, proposed a theory in which an intrinsically motivated child acts on the world, noticing discrepancies between the environment and inner structures, or ways of thinking.
In contrast to the behaviorist emphasis on adult tutoring, Piaget believed that since development follows a natural, internally controlled stage sequence, what comes from within the child is paramount in guiding cognitive change.
Piaget’s contribution to the ﬁeld of child development is enormous.
Especially important, Piaget convinced the academic community—as well as many parents and teachers—that children are active contributors to their own development, have their own ways of understanding the world, and must be developmentally ready if teaching is to be successful.
Rather than tracking how well pupils keep pace with norms, or the average performance of same-age peers, open-classroom teachers evaluate children on an individual basis—in relation to their own prior development.
As our discussion already suggests, a central Piagetian tenet is that it is foolhardy to try to speed up development.
Because Piaget stressed the supremacy of children’s engagement with their surroundings over adult teaching, parents’ and teachers’ contributions to development are severely reduced relative to the child’s.
37 This, along with the cross-cultural ﬁndings just described, raises doubts about Piaget’s assumption that discovery learning rather than adult teaching is the most eective way to foster development.
As Damon’s message suggests, in building an eective vision of child development and child rearing, neither the child’s inner thoughts and feelings nor the role of adult guidance can be singularly extolled or wholeheartedly ignored.
Today, sound theories and educational strategies exist that are neither adult- nor child-centered but, instead, portray both as participating actively, jointly, and inseparably in the process of development.
On only one point is the popular parenting literature unanimous: the vital importance of getting development o to a good start during the preschool years.
After decades of theoretical division and debate, a new, more complex view of child development is coalescing in the ﬁeld, supported by rapidly accumulating research evidence.
The fragmented, polarized theories of the past are giving way to more equitable theories emphasizing that the child and the social environment interact and that the contributions of each to development cannot be separated and weighted in a simplistic, one-sided manner.
A second step is an appreciation of the multiplicity of factors that contribute to development—an understanding that spells out parents’ vital role yet clariﬁes how it joins with other forces to aect children’s development and well-being.
child development: a new consensus
At the dawn of a new millennium, a fresh set of theories of child development has blossomed.
Many Factors Contribute to Development
These elements include the child’s heredity and biological constitution; the people and objects in the child’s everyday settings of home, child-care center, school, and neighborhood; community resources for child rearing (such as family-friendly workplace policies and high-quality, aordable child care); and cultural values and customs related to child development and education.
A common human genetic heritage and basic regularities in children’s physical and social environments yield certain universal, broad outlines of development.
Within this dynamic system in which inner and outer forces jointly engender development, each contributing factor inﬂuences—and is inﬂuenced by—the others.
brain development.
How does early experience join with biology to aect brain development?
Notice how, for the biological side of brain development to go forward, appropriate stimulation is essential while formation of neural connections is at its peak.
Because of rapid brain growth and gradual decline in brain plasticity, the ﬁrst 5 to 8 years of life are regarded as a sensitive phase of development in which appropriate stimulation is necessary for children to reach their full genetic potential.
In Burton White and Robert Held’s classic study of the impact of early stimulation on development, young babies in a barren institution given a moderate amount of stimulation tailored to their ability to handle it—at ﬁrst, a few simple designs on the side of their crib and later, a fancy mobile—reached for and explored objects six weeks earlier than did infants given nothing to look at.
Our rapidly expanding knowledge base on brain development and children’s learning reveals that a genetically inﬂuenced roadmap for brain growth and a developmentally appropriate environment go hand in hand; the impact of each depends on the other.
Let’s see how temperament combines with brain development and experience, forming a complex, dynamic system that shapes the course of development.
Let’s see how temperament combines with brain development and experience, forming a complex, dynamic system that shapes the course of development.
To chart the development of shy and sociable children, psychologist Jerome Kagan followed several hundred youngsters from infancy into the school years, repeatedly observing their behavior and measuring their physiological responses to highly stimulating, unfamiliar events.
Shy and sociable children also require dierent adult interventions to promote exploration of their surroundings—an activity that (as Piaget pointed out) is essential for optimal cognitive development.
Finally, culture aects the likelihood that parents and teachers will respond to shy children in ways that foster their development.
Environmental forces, from adult–child interaction to cultural values, join with heredity to aect the development of children with other temperamental dispositions as well.
Throughout this book—and especially in Chapter 5, which addresses the development of children with physical and mental disabilities—we will see many more examples of these synergistic eects.
Indeed, many eminent child development researchers have countered Harris’s thesis.
Furthermore, no conclusive evidence exists for the assertion that the most consequential environment for children’s development is the peer group rather than the family.
In fact, this overriding emphasis on peers as a source of positive development is itself a product of our 