 these developments has been the far greater demand made by Defense on technical systems, leaving the DCI less able to influence how these technical resources are allocated and used.
The new committee or committees should conduct continuing studies of the activities of the intelligence agencies and report problems relating to the development and use of intelligence to all members of the House and Senate.
One expert witness (not a member of the administration) told us that this is perhaps the single largest obstacle impeding the department's successful development.
Recommendation: A specialized and integrated national security workforce should be established at the FBI consisting of agents, analysts, linguists, and surveillance specialists who are recruited, trained, rewarded, and retained to ensure the development of an institutional culture imbued with a deep expertise in intelligence and national security.
See Arab Human Development Report 2003 (United Nations, 2003), a report prepared by Arabs that examines not only standard statistical data but also more sensitive social indicators recently identified by the Nobel Prize-winning economist Amartya Sen.
See Mark Le Vine, "The UN Arab Human Development Report: A Critique," Middle East Report, July 26, 2002 (online at www.merip.org/mero/mer0072602.html).
30, 2003); DOS cable, Nairobi 7020, "Sudan: Foreign Minister on Developments re Terrorism and Peace," May 21, 1996.
DOS cable, Nairobi 07020,"Sudan: Foreign Minister on Developments," May 21, 1996.
CIA cable, "19 May 98 Briefing for JSOC,"May 27,1998; CIA cable,"Developments in the [Tribals'] Operation at the HQs End," May 26, 1998; Joint Inquiry interview of Michael Canavan, Sept. 3, 2002.
Side of the Bin Ladin Capture Operation," May 27, 1998; CIA cable,"Developments in the [Tribals'] Operation at the HQs End," May 26, 1998.
183; CIA talking points, "CIA Operation Results in Capture of Two Bin Ladin Operatives," July 7, 1998; CIA memo, Jeff to Tenet, "Biweekly Developments in CT Policy," July 15, 1998.
The telescope program, for instance, was considered too challenging and risky for the CIA's Afghan assets; development continued through the summer, but the idea was eventually dropped.
Hadley told us that he was able to do less policy development than in a normal two-month transition.
On the early development of the Patriot Act, see, e.g., Brill, After, pp. 73-76, 120-125.
For the report, see United Nations Development Programme report, Arab Human Development Report 2003: Building a Knowledge Society (United Nations, 2003) (online at www.miftah.org/Doc/Reports/Englishcomplete2003.pdf).
For the report, see United Nations Development Programme report, Arab Human Development Report 2003: Building a Knowledge Society (United Nations, 2003) (online at www.miftah.org/Doc/Reports/Englishcomplete2003.pdf).
Social and Economic Malaise In the 1970s and early 1980s, an unprecedented flood of wealth led the then largely unmodernized oil states to attempt to shortcut decades of development.
By the late 1980s, diminishing oil revenues, the economic drain from many unprofitable development projects, and population growth made these entitlement programs unsustainable.
Unlike the oil states (or Afghanistan, where real economic development has barely begun), the other Arab nations and Pakistan once had seemed headed toward balanced modernization.
These developments further blocked the arteries of information sharing.
He or she states the community's priorities and coordinates development of intelligence agency budget requests for submission to Congress.
Terrorists, in turn, have benefited from this same rapid development of communication technologies.
Two developments diminished this competition.
The second, related development was a significant transfer of planning and command responsibilities from the service chiefs and their staffs to the joint and unified commands outside of Washington, especially those for Strategic Forces and for four regions: Europe, the Pacific, the Center, and the South.
Clarke was only to "provide advice" regarding budgets and to "coordinate the development of interagency agreed guidelines" for action.
One especially noteworthy innovation was the creation of the Joint House-Senate Atomic Energy Committee, which is credited by many with the development of our nuclear deterrent capability and was also criticized for wielding too much power relative to the executive branch.
Noting that the plan was in a "very early stage of development," the NSC staff then told the CIA planners to go ahead and, among other things, start drafting any legal documents that might be required to authorize the covert action.
The original sealed indictment had added that al Qaeda had "reached an understanding with the government of Iraq that al Qaeda would not work against that government and that on particular projects, specifically including weapons development, al Qaeda would work cooperatively with the Government of Iraq."
In May and June, the U.S. government received a flurry of ominous reports, including more information about chemical weapons training or development at the Derunta camp and possible attempts to amass nuclear material at Herat.
Al Qaeda funded salaries for jihadists, training camps, airfields, vehicles, arms, and the development of training manuals.
The information we have presented about the development of the planes operation shows how, by the spring and summer of 2000, al Qaeda was able to meet these requirements.
He did not recall any particular counterterrorism issue that engaged his attention before 9/11, other than the development of the Predator unmanned aircraft system.
This suggests that the development of future guidelines should take YHL or other measures of quality of life into account.
Second, patients with Q-wave myocardial infarction were not eligible for enrollment because it was felt that statins would not influence the development of important prognostic determinants such as left ventricular systolic dysfunction, ventricular arrhythmias or mechanical complications [ 5 ] . Nevertheless, patients who develop electrocardiographic Q-waves represent a substantial proportion of all patients with myocardial infarction.
The issue of what to do about missing data caused by dropouts in clinical trials is a research topic that is still under development in statistical literature.
Meltrin α is expressed in vivo during development in condensed mesenchymal cells that give rise to skeletal muscle while meltrin β is expressed in craniofacial and dorsal root ganglia where neuronal lineages differentiate [ 26].
As both MMPs and COX-2 are important factors in tumor development [ 48, 49] IDO's role in tumorigenesis bears investigating.
NTPDases are important in many physiological processes like cell motility, adhesion, nonsynaptic information transfer, secretion, regulation of hemostasis and ectokinases [ 1 ] . Understanding the enzymatic mechanisms of the NTPDases will help description of their physiological functions, and development of strategies to regulate the functions of the enzymes.
Whole-genome expression profiling exemplified by the development of DNA microarrays represents a major advance in genome-wide functional analysis [ 1 2 ] . In a single assay, the transcriptional response of each gene to a change in cellular state can be measured, whether it is a viral infection, host cell cycle changes, chemical treatment, or genetic perturbation.
The observed disturbance of AMPA receptors may contribute to the neurotoxic process in other vulnerable brain regions and clinically to the development of dementia [ 35 ] . Interestingly, in a mouse model AMPA receptors in the cortex, striatum, hippocampus, and cerebellum declined by 29-50% as early as 8 weeks post-retroviral inoculation.
Thus, the reduction in AMPA receptor density may contribute to the development of the cognitive abnormalities associated with HIV-1 infection [ 36 ] .
The action is mediated by specific nuclear receptor proteins, which belong to a superfamily of ligand-modulated transcription factors that regulate homeostasis, reproduction, development, and differentiation [ 87 ] . This family includes receptors for steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, hormonal forms of vitamin A and D, peroxisomal activators, and ecdysone [ 88 ] . Nuclear hormone receptors are ligand-dependent transcription factors that regulate genes critical to such biological processes as development, reproduction, and homeostasis.
The action is mediated by specific nuclear receptor proteins, which belong to a superfamily of ligand-modulated transcription factors that regulate homeostasis, reproduction, development, and differentiation [ 87 ] . This family includes receptors for steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, hormonal forms of vitamin A and D, peroxisomal activators, and ecdysone [ 88 ] . Nuclear hormone receptors are ligand-dependent transcription factors that regulate genes critical to such biological processes as development, reproduction, and homeostasis.
While structure-activity relationship studies and molecular modeling have led to the development of a detailed pharmacophore model, determining specific point interactions between 5-HT 3 antagonists and binding site amino acids has proven difficult.
Author 2 (JLC) contributed to the development of the experimental approach, helped analyze and interpret the data, and edited the manuscript.
They are structural and functional modulators of extracellular matrices that play important roles in CNS development and repair.
GAG-binding proteins can be differentially sensitive to variations in GAG structure [ 27 ] . GAGs produced among different cell types have structural and compositional differences and structural changes in GAGs are known to occur in cells undergoing morphological differentiation and/or malignant transformations [ 28 29 30 31 ] . Thus, in the native retina, or other tissue, modulation of the PEDF-receptor interactions may depend on the expression of GAGs, which occur during development and pathological conditions.
EMA participated in the design, assay development and carried out the complex-formation, GAG detection and receptor binding assays.
While the ultimate goal is the development of dynamic models for the complete simulation of cellular metabolism, the success of such approaches has been severely hampered by the lack of kinetic information on the dynamics and regulation of metabolism.
The rapid development of bioinformatic databases is resulting in extensive information about the molecular composition and function of several single cellular organisms.
These simulation experiments were iterated during the development of the approach.
In addition to stimulating the development of similar tools, CoreGenes will allow continuing improvements to it.
To date, transcriptomics is the most widely studied molecular approach, enabling researchers to examine subtle differences in thousands of mRNA levels between experimental samples, medical biopsi