tive work among a multidisciplinary team of researchers and content-experts; b) the review was not limited to any specific discipline or language; c) the focus on content validity is practical and clinically relevant to practitioners and researchers; d) a great effort and detail went into the development of the search strategy, inclusion/exclusion criteria and quality-scoring instrument.
All listed authors worked collectively on the design of the study and development of the review instruments.
AA participated in the design of the study, instrument development, and methodology.
AFG participated in development of the review instruments and advised on statistical conduct of the study.
The purpose of MeSH is to provide uniformity and consistency to the indexing of the biomedical literature [ 3 ] . With the recent development of CAM on PubMed [ 4 5 ] , MeSH descriptors for CAM have been expanded.
The levator ani muscles play an important role in bladder neck fixation provided by the suspensory sling and hiatal ligament [ 6 ] . The urethra is supported by the action of the levator ani muscles through their connection to the endopelvic fascia of the anterior vaginal wall [ 7 ] , and the muscles of the levator ani contract during a cough to assist continence [ 8 ] . The fast twitch type II fibers in the levator ani muscles play an important role in continence, and their loss accompanies the development of urinary incontinence [ 9 ] . Clinically, women with recurrent urinary incontinence after Burch colposuspension have a more pronounced pelvic floor weakness than women with primary stress urinary incontinence [ 10 ] . This suggests that the recurrent urinary incontinence is caused by a progression of pelvic floor dysfunction.
After development and film exposure, the membrane was washed and stained for actin (0.
The philosophy behind the use and development of PKQuest differs from that of the standard PBPK applications.
Because of developments in the Internet, we converted access to all resources to the Internet via the public address, http://Clinical.UTHSCSA.edu.
Further research and development of more efficient strategies for seeking medical evidence are needed.
Development
The alpha coefficient is especially useful during test development because it gives a measure of how each item is contributing to the scale to which it has been assigned.
Physical diagnosis skills examined in the present study correlated with scores on the USMLE Step 1 exam, and the skills that foreshadow the clinical clerkships - identification of abnormality and development of differential diagnoses - best predicted USMLE scores [ 42 ] .
This, in turn, has led telemedicine advocates to blame payors for impeding development of the technology.
Another bill, the Health Information and Quality Improvement Act of 2001, would provide $420 million to help hospitals develop and use information technology that can reduce the frequency of medical errors [ 51 ] . However such support would not be sufficiently broad-based, and would not substitute for development of a National Health Information Infrastructure.
To be effective, development and implementation of new information technologies must speak to the minute-to-minute needs of all types of providers.
If it is to occur, substantial investment will be needed to galvanize this change, probably in large part from the federal government, with development of a national health information infrastructure representing the most important piece of the puzzle.
The TMA Data Exchange Specification provides software programmers with a promising new area for development.
During carcinogenesis, morphologically identifiable lesions occur that precede the development of invasive cancer.
3. The different kinds of precancers may vary in every biologic feature except those specified in their definition (identifiable lesions that precede the development of cancer).
They are identifiable lesions that can precede the development of cancer.
Financial, ownership and utilization data were obtained from the Hospital Annual Financial Disclosure Reports, filed annually by all California hospitals with the Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development (OSHPD).
Questionnaire Development
After the completion of this research, Dr. Michael Pignone has received licensing and consulting fees from Bayer, Inc. for the development of a CHD risk estimation tool.
Ideal circumstances would allow for the development of cost estimates based on a comprehensive study, designed not to influence resource use, of unselected patients with sufficient follow-up.
This finding is in line with the literature, which suggests that individuals who have cognitive deficits are at greater risk for exhibiting behavioral problems in long-term and other non-acute settings [ 24 ] . Investigators have found lower MMSE scores at admission predictive of functional decline following acute medical illness and hospitalization [ 26 ] . Additionally, cognitive impairment is associated with the development of delirium during hospitalization, which in turn, can result in a variety of behavioral problems [ 27 ] . However, in these studies, patients usually had cognitive impairment indicative of dementia, whereas the current study suggests that among hospitalized elderly, a MMSE score of less than 27 places a patient at increased risk of behavioral problems.
Although we identified predictors that could be easily obtained or assessed at admission, other variables, including diagnosis, acuity of illness, co-morbidities, pain, and type and dose of medications, may also be associated with the development of behavioral problems in this setting.
In summary, we report on the development of an inducible mammalian cell expression system for the catalytic subunit of the α-isotype for PP1.
These findings, provided by the development of this inducible PP1 expression system, will afford new research opportunities aimed towards addressing the question of how PP1 activity is regulated.
Vitamin E was established as an essential micronutrient for proper fetal development [ 1 ] and the amount of vitamin E required to maintain proper fetal development has been defined in International Units.
Vitamin E was established as an essential micronutrient for proper fetal development [ 1 ] and the amount of vitamin E required to maintain proper fetal development has been defined in International Units.
USAID United States Agency for International Development
In an unrelated study, we investigated the effects of mefloquine on global transcription in rat neuroblastoma (NG108) cells using microarrays [ 7 ] . Mefloquine caused a striking upregulation of growth arrest and development protein 153 (GADD153), a transcription factor selectively modulated under conditions of ER stress [ 8 ] . Taken together, these observations suggest that mefloquine might perturb the function of the ER via a disruption of calcium homeostasis.
Plates were read on a Uvmax plate reader at 405 nm (Molecular Devices, Sunnyvale, CA, USA) after 1 hr development with substrate.
Serologic tools for assessment of exposure to the parasite are still under development and testing.
The metabolic syndrome is a condition that promotes atherosclerosis and increases the risk of cardiovascular events [ 1 2 3 ] . According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, at least 47 million Americans, or about one in five people, have this condition [ 1 ] . Contributors to the development of the metabolic syndrome may include genetics, a sedentary lifestyle, a Western diet (high in refined carbohydrates, low in fiber, and high in saturated fat), cigarette smoking, and progressive weight gain [ 2 ] . The characteristics of the metabolic syndrome include atherogenic dyslipidemia, a prothrombotic state, insulin resistance, hypertension, and abdominal obesity [ 3 4 ] . Each abnormality promotes atherosclerosis independently, but when clustered together, these metabolic disorders are increasingly atherogenic and enhance the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality [ 1 ] . Based on observational studies there is evidence to support that several factors related to lifestyle habits may influence cardiovascular risk [ 5 6 7 ] . Among these factors the beneficial effect of several dietary patterns on human health, have already been underlined [ 8 9 10 ] . One of these diets, the Mediterranean diet, has received much attention during the past decades.
Although the benefits from the adoption of this diet on all cause survival have long been recognized, little is known about its association with the development of acute coronary events, in people with the metabolic syndrome.
In this work we evaluated the effect of the adoption of Mediterranean diet on the development of acute coronary syndromes, in subject with the metabolic syndrome.
The hedgehog ( hh ) gene was identified two decades ago in Drosophila as a critical regulator of cell-fate determination during embryogenesis [ 1 ] . Subsequent work in several model systems has defined and characterized the Hh gene family that encodes highly conserved secreted signaling proteins (for review see [ 2 ] ). Hedgehog (Hh) proteins are synthesized as approximately 45 kDa precursors that autoprocess in an unprecedented fashion, resulting in the covalent attachment of a cholesterol moiety to the amino-terminal half of the precursor [ 2 ] . This processed amino-terminal domain, Hh-Np, is responsible for the activation of a unique and complex signaling cascade that is essential for controlling cell fate throughout development and into adulthood [ 2 ] . In mammals there are three Hh-family proteins: Sonic (Shh), Indian (Ihh), and Desert (Dhh).
Gene-targeting experiments in mice have demonstrated that the development and patterning of essentially every major organ requires input from the Hh pathway [ 2 ] .
5) when the midline defects are first detectable in both Shh -/-and Smo -/-embryos, but prior to any general retardation of growth and development [ 26 27 ] . In both Shh +/-and Smo +/- Ptc1 lacZ /+embryos, Ptc1 was detected in ventral neural tube, somites and lateral plate mesoderm (Figure 3e,i,m).
Bailey, personal communication; M. Brodsky, personal communication; [ 16]; E. De Gregorio personal communication; A. Tang, personal communication; and P. Tomancak, personal communication), which study five different experimental questions - aging, DNA-damage response, immune response, resistance to DDT, and embryonic development.
TN contributed image analysis and software expertise in method development.
IB and CCWK provided clinical expertise in method development, selected the clinical slides for testing the method and made independent drusen measurements by stereo pair grading for method validation.
We are hypothesizing that MMG can indicate the degree of muscle activation and therefore can be used to monitor the development of the muscle fatigue, in the same way the SEMG has been proved to do.
That is why the MMG is as valuable as SEMG in exploring 