mm) to filamentous (> 150 mm) morphology is required to establish adequate placenta to uterine contact necessary for survival [ 2 ] . Characterization of the specific subset of genes regulating peri-implantation conceptus development and trophoblastic elongation in the pig provides valuable information concerning key developmental events essential to embryonic survival after trophoblastic elongation [ 1 ] .
Previous information regarding genes critical to development in early pig pregnancy is limited.
However, MPS-1 gene expression needs to be quantitatively analyzed across the stages of conceptus development.
Given the substantial increase in gene expression and temporal relationship to conceptus development, OSU-T1-50 may play an important role in trophoblastic elongation.
Future studies will attempt to identify the gene and its translated protein to determine the biological function during conceptus development.
SAHH may have significant impact on the conceptuses ability to use folates during this transitional stage of development.
Addition of an inhibitor to SAHH, 3-deazaaristeromycin, inhibits inner cell mass proliferation and differentiation during in vitro development of non-mutant embryos [ 28 ] .
As in other species, SAHH is likely a biological regulator of the SAM/SAH ratio controlling the occurrence of transmethylation reactions to the degree of which they are necessary for successful porcine conceptus development.
Advanced conceptuses, those that elongate first, have a much greater advantage with regards to acquiring ample placental:uterine contact and also limit the available uterine capacity for those conceptuses lagging in development [ 2 ] . While gene expression for SAHH was present at all stages evaluated, an approximate 7-fold increase in relative expression for this transcript over a 2-3 hour time period is noteworthy.
Increased SAHH expression by advanced conceptuses suggests there would also be increased homocysteine released into the uterine lumen that may have an embryo-toxic effect on neighboring conceptuses lagging in development.
Gene expression changes for HSC70 during early development have previously been associated with neurulation in Xenopus [ 29 ] and chick [ 30 ] embryos.
Negative mutations of HSC70 in the nervous system of Drosophila larvae resulted in both developmental defects and lethality [ 31 ] . The increased HSC70 gene expression during trophoblastic elongation is temporally associated with neural tube development in pig conceptuses.
The egg is a transcriptionally inactive cell and as such is a storehouse of maternal proteins and mRNA required for fertilization and the initiation of zygotic development.
HSP70 is one of the first genes to be expressed following zygotic gene activation in the two-cell mouse embryo [ 38 39 40 ] and appears to play a role in developmental processes in a number of species [ 50 51 52 53 ] . Endogenous HSP90 has also been implicated in developmental regulation in the mouse [ 52 ] , and GRP78 is described as having a stress-response function during avian development [ 54 ] . Activation of the zygotic genome initiates an accumulation of embryonic transcripts in the early two-cell embryo, and this likely requires machinery to ensure the accurate translation and folding of nascent proteins.
During development, selective cell death by apoptosis becomes crucial, and chaperone molecules in the egg may play a role in later apoptotic events.
Voltage-gated K +channels in non-nerve, non-muscle cells play crucial roles in cell development, proliferation, migration, volume regulation, as well as maintenance of membrane potential and cell viability.
Table 1lists the classical and non-classical estrogen sensitive tissues and cells [ 1 ] . Although several previous studies have shown that human placenta binds estradiol (E2) [ 2 3 4 ] , and estrogens influence various aspects of placental function and fetal development in humans and primates [ 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 ] , the placenta as a target for estrogens is missing.
A recent study of βERKO mice has shown that ERβ is not required for the normal prepubertal development of the mammary gland but for organization and adhesion of epithelial cells during pregnancy and hence for differentiated tissue morphology [ 23 ] . These observations indicate a possibility of complementary (sequential) roles of ERα and ERβ, since ERα appears to be required for the basic development of estrogen sensitive tissues and ERβ seems to be required for their functional maturation.
A recent study of βERKO mice has shown that ERβ is not required for the normal prepubertal development of the mammary gland but for organization and adhesion of epithelial cells during pregnancy and hence for differentiated tissue morphology [ 23 ] . These observations indicate a possibility of complementary (sequential) roles of ERα and ERβ, since ERα appears to be required for the basic development of estrogen sensitive tissues and ERβ seems to be required for their functional maturation.
Development of mature ST aggregates (m, panel C) was associated with gradual diminution of nuclear staining (solid > white arrows), but persisting cytoplasmic ERβ immunoreactivity.
We recently showed that exogenous E2 markedly stimulates development of large syncytial aggregates in trophoblast cultures [ 15 ] . We also observed that this effect can be abolished with pure anti-estrogen ICI 182,780 (unpublished data).
Other LIF effects that may influence the stress response through actions in the rodent nervous system are a LIF induced increase in acetylcholine [ 20 ] and LIF induced decreases in neuropeptide Y and tyrosine hydroxylase [ 21 ] . LIFR:gp130 signaling has strong effects in systems peripheral to but influenced by the HPA including reproductive, skeletal, nervous, neuromuscular, cardiovascular, hematopoietic, immune and metabolic systems, with influences on both development and adult homeostasis [for reviews see [ 7 22 23 24 25 26 27 ] ].
This study explores the effect of alteration of the GC environment during late gestation, with the expectation that suppression of GC effects will improve the LIFR null newborn phenotype and identify LIFR as an obligatory player in concert with the maternal GC surge during late gestation development.
RU486 administration during late gestation results in improved development of bone, skeletal muscle, and glial cells in LIFR null fetuses.
Within litter Lifr +/+ and +/- pups served as controls since there has been no detectable gene dose effect between Lifr +/+ and +/- at this stage of development.
Thus, the impact of maternal adrenalectomy on the fetuses appeared to have a selective negative effect on the development of the Lifr -/- pups.
Ordinarily very few GFAP positive cells are seen at this stage of development in wild type animals, making detection of GFAP positive cells dependent on particular spinal cord section viewed.
Lung development in all the pups looked normal as viewed on H&E stained thin sections.
Maternal adrenalectomy worsens the osteopenia, while maternal hormone suppression through RU486 improves the presumed GC related phenotypes: osteopenia, skeletal muscle integrity and glial development.
The survival of Lifr -/- pups following RU486 treatment was similar to the phenotype seen in CNTFR null mice where neuronal development was disrupted which disallowed suckling [ 40 ] . This indicates that at least some of the problems encountered with neuronal development that affect normal suckling were not ameliorated by RU486.
The survival of Lifr -/- pups following RU486 treatment was similar to the phenotype seen in CNTFR null mice where neuronal development was disrupted which disallowed suckling [ 40 ] . This indicates that at least some of the problems encountered with neuronal development that affect normal suckling were not ameliorated by RU486.
Excess GC activity due to LIFR loss is an unexpected result since LIF gain-of-function mice develop a Cushing's-like syndrome [ 29 30 ] . Thus, if the relationship were simple, loss of LIFR function would predict development of GC insufficiency.
A primary function of this surge is to allow development to switch from growth to maturation of a number of systems that will allow the pup to survive on separation from the mother.
In addition, the maternal GC surge effectively leads to fetal glycogen accumulation in the liver for energy demands at birth, increased fetal bioavailable tri-iodothyronine from thyroxine to allow for an increased metabolic rate and thermogenesis required at birth, maturation of the fetal small gut to prepare for digestion, heightened fetal adrenal medullar catecholamine release for control of the above processes, maturation of fetal kidney function and a switch to bone marrow hematopoiesis from the fetal liver [reviewed by [ 41 ] ]. The timing of this maternal surge suggests that LIFR function is required at this point in development as a moderator of the consequences of excess GC level.
In addition, a progesterone receptor knockout mouse model affects only female mice with reported effects limited to organs of reproduction causing anovulation, uterine hyperplasia and inflammation, limited mammary development and impaired sexual behavior [ 58 ] . There was no noticeable difference in phenotype in the Lifr -/- pups due to gender following any of the treatments (data not shown).
5 [ 61 ] . This suggests that the effect of gp130 knockout on cardiac development is mediated outside of cardiac tissue and the primary developmental defect is peripheral to the heart.
Given the improvement in skeletal muscle noted in this study following RU486, it would be reasonable to explore a central HPA defect following gp130 loss as the mediator of hypotrophic cardiac development.
LIF and CNTF stimulate muscle regeneration in vivo [ 62 63 ] , as do other growth factors; such as insulin-like growth factor [ 64 65 ] . The power of LIF to regenerate muscle is seen in dystrophin null mdx mice, where exogenous LIF regenerates atrophied diaphragm muscle [ 66 ] . LIF induced signaling appears to be essential in muscle development as seen by muscle atrophy in the absence of LIFR on E18.
LIF is also responsible for increased GFAP expression [ 69 ] , while signaling through LIFR:gp130 is critical in fostering the differentiation of neuronal precursors into astrocytes [ 70 ] mediated through STAT3 [ 71 72 73 74 ] . Glial cells respond to GC, which, in turn, can affect transcriptional control of GFAP level either positively or negatively [ 74 ] . The present study shows that GC's can play a critical role in hindering astrocyte development in the absence of LIFR as seen through the partial abrogation of this defect following exposure to RU486 in Lifr -/- mice.
RU486 crosses the blood-brain-barrier and is present at only 28% of levels seen in the serum [ 75 ] . Perhaps glial development would be further improved in the presence of higher levels of RU486 were these levels not abortive.
This indicates that th