wild type" strain (Ax4) and the ifkA null strain (BS153, described below) during growth and at various times after the onset of development.
2represents the additive mRNA levels from both genes in Ax4 during growth and development, while panel B reflects ifkB mRNA levels and panel C reflects ifkA mRNA levels.
IfkB mRNA expression remains constant as development proceeds, while the levels of ifkA mRNA dramatically drop soon after the onset of development and remain at a low level for the remainder of development.
IfkB mRNA expression remains constant as development proceeds, while the levels of ifkA mRNA dramatically drop soon after the onset of development and remain at a low level for the remainder of development.
IfkB mRNA expression remains constant as development proceeds, while the levels of ifkA mRNA dramatically drop soon after the onset of development and remain at a low level for the remainder of development.
Some of the results below, including the morphology during development, were confirmed in the other, independently isolated null strains.
BS153 and Ax4 cells were grown on bacteria and plated under standard conditions of development after removal of the bacteria.
BS153 cells were able to develop and form fruiting bodies, indicating that if IfkA is involved in sensing amino acid starvation to initiate development this involvement is nonessential.
However, development of BS153 cells was atypical in several ways.
BS153 cells formed ripples, the first visual sign of aggregation, as early as 4 hours, and the tight mound stage was attained by 7 to 8 hours after the onset of development.
Development of the cells in monolayers in buffer or in conditioned medium from BS153 or Ax4 cells [ 10 ] indicated that secreted factors were involved in causing both the earlier aggregation of BS153 cells and the larger size of the resulting multicellular entities.
One secreted factor that is involved in regulating aggregation, cAMP pulsing, and early developmental events is CMF [ 2 3 ] . CMF mRNA levels were normal in BS153 during growth and development (not shown).
The cAMP cell surface receptor Car1 ( carA gene) is responsible for sensing secreted cAMP and activating adenylyl cyclase ( acaA gene), which in turn results in the production and secretion of cAMP in order to relay the cAMP pulses [ 38 ] . Normally both of these genes are expressed at very low levels in growing cells, and their expression is induced during the first few hours of development, including a stimulation of expression by the cAMP pulses themselves [ 39 ] .
RT-PCR was carried out on RNA isolated from growing cells and at various times after the onset of development of BS153 and Ax4 cells (fig.
In the Ax4 parental strain, there was a basal level of phosphorylation of eIF2α found in growing cells, and the level was higher from 2 to 6 hours after the onset of development (fig.
In contrast, eIF2α phosphorylation in BS153 cells remained at the basal, growth specific level throughout the times of development that were examined (the first 10 hours).
In Dictyostelium , a major shift in the polysome profile occurs as a result of starvation and initiation of development [ 19 23 ] . The percentage of mRNA associated with polysomes drops from about 80-90% in growing cells to 50-60% within several minutes of removal of the food source.
However, at two hours and four hours after the onset of development evidence was found for a second, smaller magnitude polysome shift.
Although the initial decrease in translation is a result of a different mechanism, we conclude that phosphorylation of eIF2α by IfkA from about 1 to 7 hours after the onset of development results in a further decrease in overall translation initiation and thus in a secondary shift of polysomes to free ribosomes.
In the parental strain Ax4, the level of countin mRNA gradually decreased with time after the onset of development (fig.
To examine this possibility, the distribution of countin mRNA within the polysome profiles of Ax4 and BS153 were examined before and after the onset of development.
The results indicate that in the absence of IfkA and its phosphorylation of eIF2α during early development, countin mRNA is retained less well on polysomes and has fewer associated ribosomes.
This suggests that normally during early development in the wild type strain, enhanced translation of countin mRNA occurs as a result of IfkA phosphorylating eIF2α.
Also, it is possible that reduced association with ribosomes results in a destabilization of countin mRNA, and this might account for the more rapid loss and lower levels of countin mRNA found in BS153 cells after the onset of development.
To examine this possibility, countin mRNA levels were examined after the inhibition of transcription, 2 hours after the onset of development, using actinomycin D [ 40 ] . After inhibition of transcription, countin mRNA was lost earlier in developing BS153 cells than in the parental Ax4 cells (fig.
Recent findings indicate the presence of another Countin-like factor, Countin2, that is involved in regulating aggregate size [ 14 ] . Countin2 mRNA levels were found to be the same in BS153 and Ax4 during growth and development (not shown).
Depletion of amino acids as opposed to other nutrients such as glucose and vitamins was shown to be responsible for shutting down growth and cell division and initiating the developmental program [ 19 20 21 ] . Although substantial progress on the regulation of the initiation of development in Dictyostelium has been made [ 15 16 17 18 ] , how the cells sense starvation and in particular amino acid deprivation is unknown.
GCN2 of yeast and mammals is a known sensor of amino acid starvation and regulates cellular responses to such starvation [ 24 25 ] . Using degenerate primers and PCR and database searching identified two GCN2-like genes in Dictyostelium , ifkA and ifkB . Thinking that one or both of these genes may play a role in sensing amino acid starvation and in initiating development, we carried out the work described herein to examine their functions.
Although it is possible that IfkB plays a role in the transition from growth to development, we do not think it does.
A basal level of eIF2α phosphorylation was found in growing cells, and this basal level was maintained during development in the ifkA null strain.
Instead, only a basal and unchanging level of phosphorylation during growth and development can be attributed to IfkB.
A very early event marking the initiation of development is a substantial reduction in overall translation initiation and a concomitant major shift of ribosomes from mRNA-associated ribosomes (polysomes) to free ribosomes [ 22 23 ] . The percentage of mRNA associated with polysomes drops from about 80-90% in growing cells to 50-60% within several minutes of the removal of the food source.
Disruption of the ifkA gene was accomplished, and several defects were found in the null strain (BS153) that indicted a role for IfkA and eIF2α phosphorylation during the first several hours of development.
Examining the morphology of the null strain revealed two major aberrations relative to the normal morphology attained during development.
In addition, these genes are "pulse-induced" genes and thus their induction during early development normally is enhanced and promoted as the cAMP pulses are established [ 39 ] . The early and more abundant induction of their mRNAs in BS153 indicate that the pulsing system is functioning earlier in the absence of IfkA.
Examination of eIF2α phosphorylation in ifkA null cells indicated that the IfkA protein is responsible for increased phosphorylation eIF2α from 1 to 7 hours after the onset of development.
The uORFs are involved mechanistically in bringing about enhanced translation initiation under conditions that otherwise favor a general decrease in translation initiation [ 25 ] . Within the 5' UTR of countin mRNA, we find uORFs similar in number and in arrangement to those of GCN4 mRNA, the major mRNA regulated by yeast GCN2 [ 25 ] . Thus, we suggest that countin mRNA, and probably other as yet identified mRNAs, are translationally upregulated when IfkA phosphorylates eIF2α during the preaggregation period, or from 1 to 7 hours after the onset of development.
Indeed we found less intracellular Countin throughout the first 8 hours after the onset of development of BS153 cells.
In addition, there was significantly less Countin secreted during the first 8 hours of development.
The heterogeneity of the size of the aggregates of developing BS153 might arise from the fact that extracellular countin levels eventually reach near normal levels, at about 10 to 12 hours after the onset of development.
Since the extracellular concentrations of Countin reflect cell density, perhaps it is important to maintain a constant level of Countin production and secretion once development has been initiated.
In summary, the findings suggest that IfkA is an eIF2α kinase of Dictyostelium that normally phosphorylates eIF2α from 1 to 7 hours after the onset of development, or during the preaggregation phase.
Cell growth and development
Cells were grown axenically in HL5 media or on SM plates with Klebsiella pneumoniae [ 45 ] . Cells grown in the presence of bacteria were using for development as described [ 46 47 ] unless otherwise stated.
For determination of the extent of eIF2α phosphorylation, Ax4 and BS153 cells were plated for development, and samples were taken at various times.
ifkA null cells and Ax4 cells after starvation, mid-log phase cells growing axenically were collected, washed, and resuspended in the standard development buffer (PDF, 20 mM potassium phosphate, pH 6.1, 5 mM magnesium chloride, 0.5% streptomycin sulfate) at 5 × 10 6cells/ml.
RNA was isolated, processed, and used for RT-PCR as described [ 51 52 ] . For polysome analysis, BS153 and Ax4 cells were harvest from bacterial growth plates before noticeable presence of Dictyostelium cell growth . After removal of bacteria, cells were plated for development as described above.
After 2 and 4 hours of development, cells were collected into polysome buffer (HMK-NP40 plus cycloheximide to stabilize the polysomes).
For all RNA samples used in RT-PCR reactions, H7 specific oligonucleotides were used as a control; H7 mRNA is expressed at a constant level during growth and development [ 47 ] and thus monitors relative levels of RNA used in the reactions.
Homeobox genes of the Hox class are required for proper patterning of skeletal elements [ 7 ] . The functional role of Hox genes in skeletal growth and development has been clearly demonstrated, but how they control the differentiation of specific tissues is not well understood.
The structural rigidity of rib cartilage is greatly compromised, fatally interfering with pulmonary function, and vertebral cartilage is so weak that the skeleton often disassembles during skeletal preparation [ 1 ] . These results suggest that Hoxc-8 continues to regulate skeletal development well bey