not only peripheral fatigue, but also sensorimotor interaction and central intervention in the development of the muscular fatigue.
It brings additional evidence on the central fatigue and provides means of quantifying the fatigue development in the isometric exercise.
According to this study, the MMG signal can be used for indication of the degree of muscle activation and for monitoring the muscle fatigue development in the isometric contraction.
The rec12 mutants were proficient at meiosis and underwent two meiotic divisions as revealed by ascus development and the distribution of chromosomes.
However, each of the rec12 mutants exhibited a high frequency of chromosome segregation errors that were sometimes accompanied by defects in spore formation and/or ascus development (Figure 3B).
Funded primarily by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), DHS is administered by Macro International Inc. [ 20 ] . Low-income country governments and international organizations have long relied on DHS data to monitor a variety of child and maternal health and family planning indicators [ 21 ] . One of the most significant contributions of the DHS is the collection of internationally comparable data on the demographic and health characteristics of populations in developing countries [ 22 23 24 25 ] ..
JIL drafted the manuscript and assisted in the development of the analytical model; YN developed the model to estimate health benefits from energy savings; and JDS conceived of the original study and participated in design and coordination.
Both sources vary in terms of the validity and reliability of information on maternal pre- and gravid disease and pregnancy complications and require cautious interpretation of findings [ 25 26 27 ] . We believe that this has hampered a more complete interpretation of findings regarding the hazards of fish consumption on fetal development.
One frequently cited study reporting a negative association with Great Lakes fish consumption and birth size did not appear to include cigarette smoking in the model [ 4 ] as noted by at least one other author [ 42 ] . A few authors have noted that the fish consumption effect, despite being negatively associated with birth size, is small in comparison to other covariates important for fetal growth and development [ 12 24 ] , which is more in keeping with our findings.
Excessive and inappropriate use of antibiotics in hospitals, health care facilities and the community contributes to the development of bacterial resistance.
Selective pressure by antimicrobial drugs is by far the most important driving force for the development of such resistance.
It is preferable to keep the number of drugs per prescription as low as possible to minimize the risk of drug interactions, development of bacterial resistance and hospital costs [ 15 ] . We did not look at the co-prescribed drugs here, but concentrated only on antibiotics.
Prevention and control of the spread of antibiotic-resistant organisms will require increased adherence to basic infection control policies and procedures, incorporation of antimicrobial resistance strategies into institutional goals and development of a plan to deal with patients colonized with resistant organisms [ 23 ] .
Because of the latency in the development of cancer, it would not even be plausible to say that the 1996 data could explain only 1997 diagnoses.
Also, the ZIP code of residence at diagnosis is an inadequate descriptor of an individual's location during the development of cancer.
However, the precise mechanism of each of these genetic alterations in the multi-step pathway of cervical tumor development is largely unknown.
The development of CC is preceded by distinct morphological changes from normal epithelium to carcinoma through low-grade and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (SILs).
Thus, deletions at 5p identified in high-grade CINs suggest that these genetic alterations occur prior to development of invasive carcinoma.
3 that harbor putative TSGs important in CC development providing a basis for their identification.
Based on the follow-up studies, we suggested that 5p genetic deletions might identify high-risk lesions for progression to invasive cancer [ 7 ] . In a more recent study it was also shown that the 5p deletions were significantly more frequent in dysplasias that were recurrent compared to non-recurrent dysplasias [ 9 ] . These data therefore suggest that 5p genetic alterations occur early in cervical carcinogenesis and they may be critical to the development of invasive cancer.
In addition, we have shown that the genetic deletions on 5p occur early during the development of CC in high-grade CIN lesions.
In addition to producing energy, mitochondria are involved in intermediary metabolism, ion homeostasis, synthesis of lipids, amino acids, and nucleotides, active transport processes, cell motility, and cell proliferation [ 1 2 3 4 ] . Recent developments also demonstrate that mitochondria are key regulators of programmed cell death [ 4 ] . Mitochondrial dysfunction is one of the most profound features of cancer cells.
Among genes that are up regulated in Rho 0cells p19 (INK4d), a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor, is focally expressed during fetal development and plays a role in terminal differentiation [ 19 ] . Members of the group of INK proteins are involved in arresting cells in G1 phase of the cell cycle.
Another interesting feature in the expression profile of cells lacking mtDNA is the low expression of many genes that play a role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system [ 47 48 ] . Of particular interest is the gene that encodes neurotensin receptor I, a short peptide receptor for neurotensin that exerts neuromodulatory functions in the central nervous system and endocrine/paracrine actions in the periphery [ 49 ] . Neuromodulin is also involved in the growth and regeneration of axons, and in the elongation of axons as an axonal transport membrane protein [ 45 ] . Synuclein is expressed in the nervous tissues and mutations in this gene are associated with rare familial cases of early-onset Parkinson's disease [ 50 ] . Gamma synuclein is also involved in tumorigenesis [ 42 ] . PKC-g mutation has been shown to lead to neurodegeneration [ 51 ] . Dachshund, a putative transcription factor, plays a role in retinal development [ 52 ] . Huntingtin-interacting protein-2 is involved in the neurodegenerative Huntington disease [ 53 ] .
Another interesting feature in the expression profile of cells lacking mtDNA is the low expression of many genes that play a role in the development and maintenance of the nervous system [ 47 48 ] . Of particular interest is the gene that encodes neurotensin receptor I, a short peptide receptor for neurotensin that exerts neuromodulatory functions in the central nervous system and endocrine/paracrine actions in the periphery [ 49 ] . Neuromodulin is also involved in the growth and regeneration of axons, and in the elongation of axons as an axonal transport membrane protein [ 45 ] . Synuclein is expressed in the nervous tissues and mutations in this gene are associated with rare familial cases of early-onset Parkinson's disease [ 50 ] . Gamma synuclein is also involved in tumorigenesis [ 42 ] . PKC-g mutation has been shown to lead to neurodegeneration [ 51 ] . Dachshund, a putative transcription factor, plays a role in retinal development [ 52 ] . Huntingtin-interacting protein-2 is involved in the neurodegenerative Huntington disease [ 53 ] .
Promoter methylation has been well recognized as an important epigenetic change in the development of cancer [ 1 ] . Normally, CpG islands in the promoter regions of a number of genes are present in an unmethylated state [ 2 ] . Aberrant methylation of CpG islands in promoters is characteristic of several genes in cancer leading to loss of gene expression.
A unique feature of GCTs is their origin from germ cells at a stage in development where they undergo epigenetic reprogramming [ 6 13 ] . The absence of this epigenetic modification in SGCTs is consistent with their GC-like nature as previously noted [ 6 14 ] . On the other hand, the extensive promoter hypermethylation seen in NSGCTs suggests a mechanistic role in their potential for embryonal and extra-embryonal lineage differentiation [ 6 14 ] . Establishment of DNA methylation in the mammalian genome is controlled by at least three DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs), DNMT1 , DNMT3a and DNMT3b [ 15 ] . The role of these DNMTs in differential de novo methylation in SGCT vs.
Pax3 gene encodes a transcriptional factor important in early development program, while FKHR gene encodes another generic transcriptional factor that is widely expressed in mammalian tissues.
Ese-1/Esx is a member of the Ets transcription factor family and is expressed mainly in epithelial tissue [ 30 ] . Its expression has been detected during mammary gland development and breast tumorigenesis [ 47 48 ] . It is noteworthy that Ese-1/Esx is a potential transcriptional regulator of the TGFβ type II receptor [ 31 ] and overexpression of Ese-1/Esx in non-invasive cells leads to a reduction in cell growth in the presence of TGFβ, presumably because of an increased TGFβ type II receptor level [ 49 ] . It is interesting that TGFβ-dependent downregulation of Ese-1/Esx is not affected by SB-203580.
Converging evidence from epidemiological and molecular studies suggests that infection of genital human papillomavirus (HPV) is causally linked to the development of CC [ 4 ] . Since only a small fraction of HPV-infected cervical intra-epithelial neoplastic (CIN) lesions progress to invasive cancer, these studies further suggest that in addition to HPV, other host genetic factors play a role in cervical carcinogenesis [ 5 ] . A number of molecular studies have identified genetic alterations in these two histologic types of CC and at various stages of precursor lesions [ 6 7 8 ] . Despite this molecular characterization, the genetic basis of CC initiation and progression is still very poorly understood.
Epigenetic hypermethylation in the promoter regions of a number of genes has been recognized as an important change in the development of human cancer [ 9 ] . A growing number of cancer-related genes have been identified to harbor methylation of cytosine residues in CpG-rich promoter sequences.
7%) showed absent or reduced expression suggesting that CDH1 inactivation is a later event in CC development.
If confirmed, the down-regulated RARB expression in high-grade CINs suggests that this occurs early in progression and plays a role in the development of CC.
Genetic alterations play an important role in the development of CC [ 4 7 8 ] . Our extensive molecular analyses identified a number of specific genetic changes in invasive CC and its precursor lesions [ 6 14 15 16 17 18 19 ] . However, epigenetic alteration in cervical tumorigenesis is not well characterized [ 12 13 ] . In the present study, we identified an overall methy