es, etc . Although mRNA is not the end product of a gene, the transcription of a gene is both critical and highly regulated, thereby providing an ideal point of investigation [ 1 2 ] . Development of microarrays has permitted global measurement of gene expression at the transcript level and provided a glimpse into the coordinated control and interactions between genes.
The cDNA array has a long history of development [ 3 ] stemming from immunodiagnostic work in the 1980s; however, it has been most widely developed in recent years by Stanford University (California) researchers depositing cDNA tags onto glass slides, or chips, with precise robotic printers [ 4 ] . Labeled cDNA fragments are then hybridized to the tags on the chip, scanned, and differences in mRNA between samples identified and visualized using a variation of the red/green matrix originally introduced by Eisen and colleagues [ 5 ] . The light-generated oligonucleotide array, developed by Affymetrix, Inc. (Santa Clara, CA), involves synthesizing short 25-mer oligonucleotide probes directly onto a glass slide using photolithographic masks [ 6 7 ] . Sample processing includes the production of labeled cRNA, hybridization to a microarray, and quantification of the obtained signal after laser scanning.
The present article will take only the data from the liver as an example for the development of a gene selection model.
The following discussions describe the development of the model within the context of our nutritional study; however, a generic protocol can be found in the Materials and Methods section.
Measurement variance was examined following the development of the LFC model, and was therefore used simply as a confirmation of this model.
The conclusion that highly expressed genes will rarely have a 2-fold change in mRNA levels and that lowly expressed genes will commonly have a greater than 2-fold change led to the development of a model that would accommodate for this real biological characteristic of gene expression measurements.
In the data set that was used for illustrating the development of the LFC-model, duplicate measures were available for one of the four treatments.
MR initiated the development of robust mathematical techniques to evaluate microarray data at the Nestlé Research Center.
An equivalent presentation for intron conservation data is under development.
At this stage in our development of the sequence alignments, there are well-established and distinct patterns of sequence conservation and variation.
Thus, at this stage in the development of the alignments, the most conserved regions ( i.e., hour hand regions) and semi-conserved regions ( i.e., minute hand regions) have been aligned with high confidence.
The process of generating these secondary structure diagrams occurs in parallel with the development of the sequence alignments.
The development of a single chip containing the complete gene set for a given tissue or for a complex organism (30,000 to 60,000 genes) is likely in the near future, so it is paramount that chip manufacturers avoid these problems [ 7 ] . In this report, we demonstrate that microarray technology continues to be a dynamic and developing process and highlight potential pitfalls that must be addressed when interpreting data.
However, as demonstrated by our findings, the development of a standardized microarray system is needed to obtain more meaningful data from these experiments.
Affymetrix microarrays are used by many laboratories to study differences in gene expression associated with experimental treatments, diseases, development, aging, and other conditions.
Molecular methods, such as the evaluation of hormone receptors in breast carcinoma, have been effectively employed to further characterize tumors [ 1 ] . Nucleic acid array-based technologies extend molecular characterization by providing a biochemical snapshot, or profile, of cellular activity that encompasses thousands of gene products [ 2 ] . Potential applications beyond diagnosis and prognosis are diverse, and include treatment response stratification of patients in clinical trials, assessment of relevance to human safety of drug-associated tumors in animal carcinogenicity studies, and the development of more pertinent animal xenograft models of cancer therapy.
In higher eukaryotes, many genes feature differential spatial-temporal expression during development and throughout the life cycle of the organism.
As many genomic techniques are generating increasingly large amounts of molecular data, new tools such as this will be required for the synthesis of "parts into pathways" in order that we may understand how cells regulate the many processes necessary for growth and development.
1, induces the spontaneous oscillations in cAMP observed during the early development of D. discoideum.
In order to facilitate the development of sequence analysis applications based on the USM state space, the software library of functions written to calculate the USM coordinates is provided with the web-based implementation (see address above).
We next interchanged the test and training sets and used the same three rule development strategies.
The development of disease classifiers using routine analysis proved to be straightforward, and resulted in excellent performance in both the test and training sets (e.g.
In particular, if experimental bias and noise effects can be excluded, this region may prove to offer the optimum for ovarian cancer diagnostic test development.
As with all clinical test development, confirmation of results in independent laboratories running blinded samples will remain the gold standard in ruling out the possible effects of bias, unless the sample set itself contains the bias.
In the quest to determine Arabidopsis TF function and establish the regulatory networks that control the expression of all Arabidopsis genes, the development of a web-based resource that divides TFs into families and allows the rapid download of any Arabidopsis TF sequence and the fast identification of mutants, linked to the possible sequences to which these TFs may bind in the Arabidopsis genome is of pressing urgency.
Providing these resources and starting to link TFs to target genes is the basic motivation behind the development of AGRIS.
The web pages were developed using JavaServer Page (JSP) technology, because of its rapid development and easy maintainability qualities in development of dynamically-generated web pages and takes advantage of the java technology provided by the Apache Tomcat server http://jakarta.apache.org/tomcat.
Overall, the collective effect of resveratrol would be to decrease endothelial injury and exposure of the subendothelial matrix, which would lessen the probability of formation of atherosclerotic plaques and the development of CHD [ 53, 54, 55].
Color development was achieved by incubating the membrane in substrate [(5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate-nitrobluetetra-zolium chloride) (BCIP-NBT)].
The anti-resorbing agent 17β-estradiol is especially noteworthy because of the association of its decline at menopause with the development of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Development of osteosclerosis and the disappearance of the marrow space in these estrogen-treated mice is an interesting and useful model since marrow stromal cells not only contain the precursors for osteogenic cell lineages, but they also exert important effects on osteoclastogenesis and lymphopoiesis, and modulate the effects of some systemic factors of bone turnover.
The ultrastructural alterations identified in estrogen-treated mice were very likely the cellular functional basis for the decreased resorption and development of osteosclerosis in estrogen-treated mice.
Future studies should also assess the temporal development of functional changes in the osteoclast populations during estrogen treatment, and the patterns of osteoclast death with special attention to apoptosis.
Girasole et al have recently shown that production of IL-6 is inhibited in vitro by exposure of marrow cells to 17β-estradiol; cultures of mouse bone cells showed suppressed osteoclast development when exposed to either 17β-estradiol or a neutralizing antibody to Il-6 [ 31].
Future in vivo studies combining estradiol and selected interleukins may further elucidate how the network of signals from the marrow microenvironment influences both Ocl development and Ocl function.
Shortly after injury, these small cytokines are primarily produced by fibroblasts, chemoattract leukocytes and activate their integrins causing them to adhere strongly to the endothelial cells as a prelude to their migration through the blood vessel wall to the underlying tissue and towards the source of the chemokine [ 5 ] . In addition to these functions during the early stages of wound healing, these small cytokines are also known to be involved in re-epithelialization, angiogenesis and granulation tissue development [ 3 6 7 8 ] , processes that are critical for proper healing.
The work presented here shows that cCAF, the IL-8 of chickens, stimulates expression of several ECM molecules important in development of the granulation tissue.
This is the first demonstration that treatment of wounds with a pro-inflammatory and angiogenic chemokine accelerates development of the granulation tissue during healing by stimulating the precocious deposition of ECM molecules that are critical for proper healing.
In the case of IP-10, it has been shown that in transgenic mice treated with this chemokine, wounds heal poorly and exhibit defects in angiogenesis and development of the granulation tissue [ 8 ] .
Our results strongly suggest that cCAF plays an important role in wound repair by activating fibroblasts to form early granulation tissue, through cell migration, myofibroblast differentiation and production/accumulation of ECM molecules that are critical for proper development of the healing tissue of wounds.
Transformation plates were incubated at either 23 or 30°C for 4-5 days and then stored at 4°C for one week to allow further development of the red color.
Myosin II, a key component of this actin-based cytoskeleton, has been shown to be essential for cytokinesis of D. discoideum cells in suspension as well as for efficient chemotaxis and morphogenetic changes in shape during development) [ 1 2 3 ] . All of these roles require myosin II to be in the form of thick filaments.
Previously we have examined the protein-protein interactions of proHB-EGF with the cell-surface CD9 antigen [ 9 ] . The CD9 antigen is found on a wide variety of tissue and cell types and has been reported to be involved in such cellular processes as B-cell development, cell metastasis, platelet activation and adhesion, and cell motility [ 14 15 ] . CD9 antigen is a member of the tetraspanin superfamily and consists of two extracellular domains sandwiched between four highly-conserved hydrophobic transmembrane domains [ 14 15 ] . The second extracellular domain (75-130 amino acids) is larger than