 the first extracellular domain (20-27 amino acids).
The interactions of LTBP-3 and fibulin-1C with the extracellular domain of proHB-EGF may provide further insights into the roles that these proteins play in cellular and tissue development processes.
In contrast, dark-grown seedlings undergo skotomorphogenesis (or etiolation), typified by elongated hypocotols and closed cotyledons [ 1 ] . COP1 was first identified through genetic screens as a negative regulator of light regulated development in Arabidopsis [ 2 ] . Arabidopsis cop1 mutant seedlings are constitutively photomorphogenic even when grown in the dark, and the severe cop1 mutants cause lethality in the late seedling stage, indicating that COP1 is essential for plant development [ 2 3 ] . Arabidopsis COP1 (Arabidopsis thaliana COP1, AtCOP1) is essential for the proteasome-dependent degradation of two transcription factors, HY5 and HYH [ 4 5 ] . These two homologous bZIP-type transcription factors directly interact with AtCOP1 and are capable of binding to light-responsive promoters to activate the transcription of many target genes [ 5 6 ] . Genome wide micro-array analysis shows that AtCOP1 regulates most, if not all, of the light-responsive genes under various light conditions [ 7 8 ] , substantiating the notion that AtCOP1 functions as a crucial developmental switch through targeting key transcription factors for degradation, thereby controlling the light-responsive gene expression and photomorphogenic development.
In contrast, dark-grown seedlings undergo skotomorphogenesis (or etiolation), typified by elongated hypocotols and closed cotyledons [ 1 ] . COP1 was first identified through genetic screens as a negative regulator of light regulated development in Arabidopsis [ 2 ] . Arabidopsis cop1 mutant seedlings are constitutively photomorphogenic even when grown in the dark, and the severe cop1 mutants cause lethality in the late seedling stage, indicating that COP1 is essential for plant development [ 2 3 ] . Arabidopsis COP1 (Arabidopsis thaliana COP1, AtCOP1) is essential for the proteasome-dependent degradation of two transcription factors, HY5 and HYH [ 4 5 ] . These two homologous bZIP-type transcription factors directly interact with AtCOP1 and are capable of binding to light-responsive promoters to activate the transcription of many target genes [ 5 6 ] . Genome wide micro-array analysis shows that AtCOP1 regulates most, if not all, of the light-responsive genes under various light conditions [ 7 8 ] , substantiating the notion that AtCOP1 functions as a crucial developmental switch through targeting key transcription factors for degradation, thereby controlling the light-responsive gene expression and photomorphogenic development.
In contrast, dark-grown seedlings undergo skotomorphogenesis (or etiolation), typified by elongated hypocotols and closed cotyledons [ 1 ] . COP1 was first identified through genetic screens as a negative regulator of light regulated development in Arabidopsis [ 2 ] . Arabidopsis cop1 mutant seedlings are constitutively photomorphogenic even when grown in the dark, and the severe cop1 mutants cause lethality in the late seedling stage, indicating that COP1 is essential for plant development [ 2 3 ] . Arabidopsis COP1 (Arabidopsis thaliana COP1, AtCOP1) is essential for the proteasome-dependent degradation of two transcription factors, HY5 and HYH [ 4 5 ] . These two homologous bZIP-type transcription factors directly interact with AtCOP1 and are capable of binding to light-responsive promoters to activate the transcription of many target genes [ 5 6 ] . Genome wide micro-array analysis shows that AtCOP1 regulates most, if not all, of the light-responsive genes under various light conditions [ 7 8 ] , substantiating the notion that AtCOP1 functions as a crucial developmental switch through targeting key transcription factors for degradation, thereby controlling the light-responsive gene expression and photomorphogenic development.
Studies of PP5 and its homologs in cultured cells and various organisms also suggest it may play a role in development [ 5 6 ] or during rapid cell growth [ 2 7 ] .
GABA signaling plays several roles in neuronal development.
Early in CNS development, GABA can modulate neuron progenitor proliferation as well as neuron migration, survival and differentiation [ 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14].
Later, during postnatal development, normal GABAergic input is required for activity-dependent plasticity in the visual cortex as shown in the Gad2 knockout mouse [ 15, 16].
In addition to these functions in the developing CNS, GABA signaling is also required for the normal development of non-neural tissues.
Targeted mutations of the Gad1 gene lead to defective development of the secondary palate [ 17, 18].
The cleft palate phenotype of the Gad1 mutants suggests the involvement of GABA-mediated signals in the normal development and differentiation of a structure derived from the oral epithelium and neural crest ecto-mesenchyme.
This intriguing genetic evidence indicates a role for GABA-mediated signaling in the development of a non-neural structure, the secondary palate.
The potential for this pathway to be involved in the early development of additional non-neural tissues has not yet been thoroughly explored [ 23].
The earlier activation of Gad1 in the forelimb reflects the normal temporal order of events in limb development.
Expression was activated in a posterior to anterior (towards the nose) progression in the lateral nasal and maxillary rows, reflecting the pattern of vibrissal development [ 29].
The expression results reported here show that Gad1 was activated in several tissues outside of the central nervous system during mouse development.
As development proceeded Gad1 was detected in pharyngeal endoderm and in the ectodermal placodes of the vibrissae.
During embryogenesis, post-transcriptional regulation occurs by alternative splicing during embryonic development in rats and mice [ 32, 33].
Previously reported sites of embryonic Gad1 expression outside of the brain and spinal cord during rodent development include the lens fibers and the olfactory pit [ 38, 39].
Our results document localized expression of Gad1 at additional non-CNS sites in the mouse embryo, suggesting a potential role for GABA signaling in the development of these structures.
The genetic data strongly suggest that GABA acts through GABA A receptors to modulate the development of this tissue.
The localized and dynamic expression pattern of Gad1 suggests a wider role for GAD and GABA in the development of non-neural tissues than was previously known.
In addition, mice lacking a single Hnf3 α allele have no observable phenotype, so that introduction of transgenes into this locus will not inherently affect embryonic development [ 14, 15].
5 days of embryonic development.
Aggregates that formed blastocysts after overnight culture were allowed to continue their development in utero by transferring them to a pseudopregnant surrogate mother.
Recent developments in the understanding of the role of mesenchymal cells and their products in regulation of proliferation and differentiation of tissue cells were initiated more than seventy years ago, when Alexis Carrel demonstrated that leukocyte extracts, like embryonic tissue extracts, stimulate multiplication of fibroblasts in vitro, and suggested that leukocytes can bring growth- activating substances to tissue-specific cells [ 11].
The relationship of mesenchymal and epithelial cells appears to be tissue-specific and established during the critical period of development, which coincides with the end of the immune adaptation [ 9].
The extent to which epithelial cells are stimulated to differentiate by mesenchymal cells is dependent on the extent to which the particular tissue differentiates during the critical period of development [ 9].
Epigenetic programing of the "stop effect" appears to depend on the extent of differentiation of tissue cells during critical period of development, such as termination of the immune adaptation.
When bovine somatic cells were transferred into preactivated recipient oocytes, the resulting reconstructed embryo development was limited, since all embryos arrested at the 8-cell stage regardless of the cell cycle of the donor cells [ 14].
Development of Reconstructed Embryos
This phenomenon is considered to involve nuclear structural changes, such as nuclear envelope breakdown, premature chromosome condensation and pronuclear development and swelling [ 27, 28, 29].
Therefore, our results clearly indicate that porcine M I oocytes like M II oocytes have the ability to reprogram confluent somatic cell nuclei as determined by nuclear remodeling and in vitro development.
It is known that pronuclear exchange between zygotes does not prevent development of the reconstructed embryos [ 39] but transfer of donor nuclei from later developmental stages into enucleated zygotes brings about restricted development [ 40, 41].
It is known that pronuclear exchange between zygotes does not prevent development of the reconstructed embryos [ 39] but transfer of donor nuclei from later developmental stages into enucleated zygotes brings about restricted development [ 40, 41].
It is possible that optimization of methods for activation improves the development of embryos reconstituted with M I oocytes.
Development of Reconstructed Embryos
Similar demonstrations performed in other insects [ 6], leeches [ 7], nematodes [ 8], ascidians [ 9], and zebrafish neural crest [ 10] indicate that lateral inhibition operates in diverse developmental contexts throughout metazoan development.
To investigate further the role of Notch-mediated cell-cell signaling in vertebrate neural development we have tested neural pattern formation in zebrafish embryos.
We examined the RNA expression patterns of delta and notch genes using a sensitive fluorescent detection method, choosing as our timepoint 24 h (hours of development at 28.
Together, these observations suggest that a subset of neural precursors and cells specified for neuronal development express dlA , dlB and dlD .
isl1 -positive cells from notochord and floorplate, presumed sources of signals that induce motor neuron development [ 47].
Although we do not know the normal fates of the cells that replaced ablated primary motor neurons, these observations are consistent with the possibility that, during normal development, primary motor neurons inhibit neighboring cells from adopting a primary motor neuron fate.
To further test the role of Delta-Notch mediated lateral inhibition in zebrafish neurogenesis, we examined embryos homozygous for a missense mutation of dlA ( dlA dx2 ). We previously described the effect of this mutation on development of floorplate, notochord and hypochord [ 37] and dorsal spinal sensory neurons and neural crest [ 38].
This indicates that disruption of Delta-Notch signaling causes development of excess primary motor neurons, which have identities appro