
But Franklin and Wilkins soon demolished it.
The temple was demolished and a vast, Classical-style church was built around Golgotha (the hill where Jesus’s crucifixion was believed to have taken place).
He bought several Strip properties — the Silver Slipper and Castaways among them — and demolished them to make way for a new kind of resort — Mirage — which became an instant success.
It was demolished in 1817.
Stones from the demolished Bastille prison were used for its support structure — galling for Royalists, since it had originally been named Pont Louis XVI.
So great is the pressure on the available land that most of Hong Kong’s colonial architectural heritage has been demolished and replaced by new skyscrapers.
These gardens used to belong to the governor’s mountain lodge, but the building was demolished by the Japanese during the occupation of Hong Kong.
This was once the scene of a famous misdevelopment plan, when a 600-room luxury hotel had to be demolished just as it was ready to open for business, since it had mistakenly been built directly on the flight path to Ibiza airport.
With no skilled Muslim labor at his disposal, Qutb called on local craftsmen to build the mosque from the ruins of 27 Hindu and Jain temples, demolished by their own elephants.
The present city walls that make the Old City so impressive and give it architectural coherence were built in 1538, on the foundations of ancient walls that had been demolished at the end of the Crusades.
When that hope was realized in June 1967, old buildings that had crowded the Wall were demolished and a wide plaza was constructed for the hundreds of worshippers who arrived daily.
Much of this historic structure was demolished by storms in 1983, prompting restoration to its original look.
In 1858 that building was demolished, making away for a second and later a third structure (the one that still stands), which was completed in 1874.
The fortress’s principal building, which may have been Henry’s headquarters, has been demolished.
Where developers saw the opportunity to demolish derelict canal houses and warehouses, the people fought (sometimes literally) to save what they considered their heritage.
The price of land was soaring, and developers could make a tidy profit by demolishing them and replacing them with something modern.
This was demolished when the metro was constructed in 1911.
This landscape is no accident or happy coincidence but a living museum created in 1960, which has brought together a number of farmhouses, windmills, dairies, and barns — real agricultural buildings which would have been demolished had they not been relocated here.
A triangle of sand — the area now bordered by the Passeig Nacional, the Avinguda d’Icària, and the beachfront Passeig Marítim — first housed dispossessed families when the Ribera district was demolished to make way for the Ciutadella fortress.
The district between La Rambla and the Ronda de Sant Antoni, once the line of the city wall, is El Raval, a neighborhood being rapidly renovated, with many old buildings demolished to create open spaces.
Most of the other gates fell when the wall was demolished during the modernization of Beijing in 1958–1959.
A short stroll leads to Friedrichstraße, where over 100,000 m of GDR architectural monstrosity have been demolished and replaced by a very elegant development of designer shops, offices, and apartments.
By the time the Russians ?nally took Budapest, three-quarters of its buildings were demolished and the Hungarian death toll in the war came to about half a million.
Most of the ugly old warehouses have been demolished along the Vieux Port at the foot of Place Jacques-Cartier.
During the latter years of Long’s reign, the French Quarter had reached a nadir, with many fine buildings in a state of near collapse — some were even demolished to make parking lots.
The Sacré-Cœur’s architect, Paul Abadie, wanted to demolish St-Pierre, but he was overruled, and it was restored “as a riposte to the Sacré-Cœur.”
On the dock, Tina and her husband, Harry Evans, who was the person who hired me as an editor at Random House and who once demolished me in pingpong in between swimming laps at his health club--and I'm a pretty good ping pong player--were spotted, saying hello or goodbye to this luminary or that one.
The NYT fronts, and the WP and LAT stuff, word that a powerful car bomb demolished an apartment building in Dagestan housing Russian counterinsurgency troops and their families.
The findings became famous when they landed on the cover of … Newsweek . Much of Backlash is dedicated to demolishing both the Bloom-Craig research itself and Newsweek 's further distortion of it-most famously, Newsweek's preposterous claim that a single gal was more likely to be killed by a terrorist than to find a mate.
Someday, someone will demolish the myth of Carter's alleged brilliance.
In a long review-essay, Wieseltier demolished West's stature as a "public intellectual," portraying him as a pretentious egomaniac, a mass of contradictions, and a superficial thinker who dresses up diluted Marxism in incomprehensible phraseology.
In the past two years, the Czech president has been widowed, lost a lung to illness, married an unpopular actress, engaged in a nasty real-estate feud with his brother, and watched rival politicians demolish his vision of Czech society.
Plaudits for the reconstruction of the fabled Elizabethan theater, which was demolished in 1644.
The Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz led Thursday with an exclusive report saying that the latest draft of the U.S. peace initiative required that Israel stop expanding its West Bank settlements and "refrain from demolishing 1800 [Palestinian] homes currently slated for demolition."
Where else does a pundit face one or more people dedicated to demolishing his or her arguments on the spot and making him or her look like a fool?
Let us pause for a moment to demolish two of the splashier rumors about White House fornication.
He demolished, in print, rivals and competitors.
The seductive and corrupting film noir downtowns featured in so many admired cheap second features might as well all have been demolished, along with the long-gone Bijous and Palaces where these films first played.
Other sports sites pale next to SportsZone, but they still demolish print and TV.
At a Washington retirement home, the president helped demolish a wall to make room for a health clinic, an activity meant, in some weirdly elliptical way, to commemorate the life of the Rev.
Even though Linux is supposed to demolish Microsoft, the Microsoft Helpdesk, which provides computer assistance to its employees, was surprisingly helpful.
Its study has been pretty well demolished by the GAO's actuaries and by a counterstudy by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal think tank.
In the New Yorker version, a precocious child surveys her friend's demolished sand castle.
Good reviews for this corny Capra-esque Australian comedy about a working-class family's fight to keep its precious but hilariously tacky home from being demolished for an airstrip.
Saga , Boutros-Ghali asserts that the wily secretary of state sought to unseat him "with determination, letting pass no opportunity to demolish my authority and tarnish my image all the while showing a serene face, wearing a friendly smile and repeating expressions of friendships and admiration through the poutiest ruby lips I have ever beheld.
but the easiest thing in the world to write is a villain you get the audience so involved in hating that you scream inside for the hero to demolish him.
In its editorial, the FT praised the judge for his "sophisticated grasp of the workings of the computer industry" and said he had successfully demolished most of Bill Gates' arguments.
A sidebar notes that controversy remains over the Mars meteorite that crashed into Antarctica about 11,000 years ago: While scientists have demolished most of the evidence that the meteorite contained living creatures, they cannot explain why the meteorite contains a molecule that on Earth is only produced by biological processes.
The protesters focus on "stability" and worry that unfettered trade will demolish it.
You don't need to play Mike Wallace and demolish Leuchter on camera.
Proposals to demolish this street and restore the unity of the whole archaeological zone from the Capitoline Hill to the Colosseum are often in the news.
And I must, or rather, want to say, that one of the prime reasons for my enjoying Mr. Cochrane's article is that he demolished the “anti-empathy” argument by using logic and facts.
The Wal-Mart strategy required and fostered the development of a company-wide computer system to track incoming and outgoing shipments to the various stores.
In Angela and Tom’s case, sandwiching concentrated time with Victor and Jeannine between work and other obligations, which often took precedence over family rituals, meant that routines that signal parental caring and that are major sources of development went by the wayside.
The new approaches are numerous—some more concerned with motor skills, others with cognitive competencies, and still others with emotional and social development.
How can adults build interdependent relationships with children that foster the development of culturally meaningful skills and mature, autonomous behavior?
the zone of proximal development
Is learning and development affected if the father becomes less involved or absent after a divorce?
It was in his book, With His Pistol in His Hand: A Border Ballad and Its Hero, that Paredes proposed his theory of the development of Chicano folklore through a process of cultural conflict generated by the invasion of Anglo culture and values into south Texas in the 1800s.
Both these developments, in turn, placed a premium on planning the next generation of satellite systems, the cost of which put great pressure on the rest of the intelligence budget.
The web pages were developed using JavaServer Page (JSP) technology, because of its rapid development and easy maintainability qualities in development of dynamically-generated web pages and takes advantage of the java technology provided by the Apache Tomcat server http://jakarta.apache.org/tomcat.
Rate of development
As is the case in wing cells the distal accumulation of Fz did not appear to influence lateral development in an
Examination of the stability of countin mRNA indicated that it was turned over more rapidly in BS153 cells during early development.
Diapausing embryos of the orthopteran Austroicetes cruciata undergo slow development for the first two months of diapause, before entering a resting stage [ 24 ] . Similarly, caterpillars of Cirphus unipunctata and Laphygma exigua continue to feed and develop during diapause, albeit at a much-reduced rate [ 25 ] , and caterpillars of the corn-stalk borer Sesamia nonagriodes undergo non-stationary moults during diapause [ 26 ] . These examples h