int that the expression of diapause-controlled dormancy may vary between species [ 2 ] . Consequently, diapause could be considered extreme regulation of developmental rate, rather than a shutting down of morphological development.
To determine the influence of temperature on the progression of development we stored the eggs under three temperature regimes, all with the same 13L:11D photoperiod: (1) 4°C in the light and 0°C in the dark; (2) constant 10°C; (3) constant 16°C.
The right singular vectors that match our preconception of a grain filling pattern of expression, for example, low expression during panicle development and increasing expression during grain development, were identified after A was decomposed.
A significance of the results is that development of microsatellite markers is important not only for peanut researchers but also for peanut industry as the paucity of DNA markers in cultivated peanut has so far precluded detailed genetic research on this crop.
Guideline development
When the interaction was present, there was no effect of scale at high food abundance, but when food abundance was low, container size affected male and female development time and mass of males (Figs.
This time frame for development of hypertrophy is similar to previous findings with iron or copper deficiency [ 14 15 16 17 40 43 ] .
, carteolol, had normal calcium cycling, normal myocardial energetics,normal β 1 receptor density as well as regression of myocytehypertrophy and reduced connective tissue content [ 18 ] . Furthermore, administration of carteolol hasbeen reported to prevent the development of virally induced cardiomyopathyin a murine model [ 25 ] . In a canine modelwith left ventricular dysfunction produced by multiple sequentialintracoronary microembolizations, long term treatment with metoprolol,a β 1 -selective blocker, has been reported to preventthe progression of LV systolic dysfunction and LV chamber dilatation [ 26 ] . Similarly, our present findings onthe effect of carvedilol indicated improvement of left ventricularfunction and smaller LV volumes.
One of the molecules presented here constitute a good framework for the development of a novel series of RAR ligands very different from all structures described so far.
While the CASP experiments provide for an environment where rapid testing of ideas is possible in a rigourous manner, a lot of the development is ad hoc, guided by intuition, and not all parameter choices are explored thoroughly.
Because folliculogenesis in the murine proceeds to the preovulatory stage in the absence of BMP-6 [ 30 ] , BMP-15 [ 15 ] , and BMPR-IB [ 31 ] , one can assume that the marked increases in these regulatory molecules are not essential for the development of a second layer of GC.
The development of RAD only in those patients with severe testicular dysfunction suggests that such dysfunction is one endogenous factor that predisposes to the development of RAD.
It is hoped that using a 'master switch gene' will result in more stable vessels, because the processes by which they are formed would resemble more closely those of normal vessel development.
We report several noteworthy observations based on our initial data, which provide a glimpse of the diversity of gene expression and the utility that will derive from a complete atlas of gene-expression patterns during Drosophila development.
Profiling has been used to gain important insights into processes such as development, responses to environmental perturbations, gene mutation, pathogen and host response, and cancer [ 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14].
Studies using knockout mice for each of these isoforms [ 9, 10, 11, 12] suggest that eNOS-derived NO is important in modulating basal pulmonary vascular tone, as well as in attenuating the development of pulmonary hypertension.
Study or Development of Coordinated Regional or Statewide Intake, Advice, Referral and Brief Services System.
In this regard, agencies must continually (1) explore and assess information security risks to business operations, (2) determine what policies, standards, and controls are worth implementing to reduce these risks, (3) promote awareness and understanding among program managers, computer users, and systems development staff, and
International Capital Markets: Developments, Prospects, and Key Policy Issues.
First, they used an evolutionary approach to product development by establishing timephased plans to develop a new product in increments based on technologies and resources achievable now and later.
DOD changed its acquisition policy to emphasize evolutionary acquisition and establish separate integration and demonstration phases in the product development process.
Some of the documents required under different development approaches may differ.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT -Federal investment in research and development refers to those expenses incurred in support of the search for new or refined knowledge and ideas and for the application or use of such knowledge and ideas for the development of new or improved products and processes with the expectation of maintaining or increasing national economic productive capacity or yielding other future benefits.
Increased funding to the most productive scientists from the national science development programs might have been an important stimulus.
For simplicity, I have described only the most common of the huge variety of very different scale insect genetic systems and modes of bacteriome development (Tremblay 1977, 1990; Nur 1980).
The upshot of these developments is that copyright holders can now permit a spectrum of uses of a paper by prospective researchers, anthologizers, archivists, teachers, patients, policy makers, journalists, and other interested parties.
They believe that energy use, in the form of metabolic rate, can be understood from the first principles of physics, and that metabolic rate can explain growth, development, population dynamics, molecular evolution, the flux of chemicals through the environment, and patterns of species diversity—to name a few.
How central will the regulation of P-TEFb be to cellular growth, proliferation, and differentiation, and what roles will it play in normal development and disease states?
As a counterweight to the Singapore Chinese, he would bring in the North Borneo states of Sabah and Sarawak, granting them special privileges for their indigenous populations and funds for the development of their backward economies.
Xcaret, or “little inlet,” is an award-winning example of a sustainable tourist development.
In the 1970s, the development, along with the new airport, of the Club Maeva and Las Hadas resorts, with their striking Moorish design, began to bring in a steady flow of tourists.
"Instead of feigning horror over this week's developments, the time is ripe for Mr. Clinton to accept the realities of another major member of the nuclear club, and use his visit to make sure its government knows that its future lies in forging closer ties to the democratic West," Beck concluded.
USA Today , the Washington Post , and the New York Times all lead with the latest developments in the investigation of President Clinton's fund-raising.
The process of development (or differentiation) is one of the least understood in biology.
Those of us who write screenplays for a living are always perplexed at what leaky logic vessels most movies turn out to be, given the endless development process that takes place before production begins.
The United States should limit technology transfers, increase spying on Beijing, strengthen our military alliances with China's neighbors (notably Japan and Korea), and stall China's weapons development as much as we peaceably can.
(The only circumstance in which he would need to seek the consent of other landowners in the development would be if he wanted to petition to change the restrictions or permit an exception to them.)
In the last several years, the business and corporate community has recognized that the positive development of youth is directly related to the development of a competent workforce.
Although these changes have provided strong motivation for increased channel coordination, the development and implementation of key facilitating technologies—like bar codes, the later spread of EDI, and automated distribution centers—have been the real movers here.
Chapters 3 through 5 analyze developments in the retail sector.
After this introduction, Chapter 2 (“The Past as Prologue”) offers a brief history of recent technological and human resource developments in retailing, apparel production—including the role of jobbers, contractors, and manufacturers—and textile enterprises.
Although these developments are very much a work in progress, information-integrated channels of production and distribution are emerging.
The developments reported here offer a prototype of the new links among manufacturers, other suppliers, retailers, and consumers.
This stream of general debate, however, is seldom related to a detailed study or analysis of the impact of such developments on the U.S. textile or apparel industries.
But the longer term viability of American textile centers will depend on the development of infrastructures capable of supporting advanced textile production in countries close to the U.S. market, such as Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America.
Adoption of just-in-time inventory management by manufacturers also represents a significant development, since changes in inventories have often been an important source of business-cycle fluctuations.
But these initiatives are still at an early stage of development.
Finally, the central role played by retailers in development and operation of the channel points to the fact that any measure—whether taken by the government, through voluntary compliance programs or via collective bargaining—must include their participation and support.
Now point-of-sales information provides retailers with reliable information on market developments and hence gives them more leverage in dealing with direct suppliers and others further from ultimate consumers.
A number of developments, many linked to issues we have discussed, indicate both the potential and limitations of electronic retailing.
47 Thus, although Internet retailing will certainly grow as a channel of distribution, the most essential longer term developments will involve the expansion of lean retailing principles to a wider and wider variety of goods sold by a decreasing number of major retailers.
In a related vein, the future of domestic producers also relies on their development of capabilities for supplying fashion products on a replenishment basis.
Once again, the development of Web sites to undertake some of these connections represents an important first step in this direction.
His story underscores the international role of textiles and apparel, their impetus in national economic development, and their place in conflicts over domestic production and im