[ 14 ] . The mounting procedure, rings vs. strips does not alter the behavior of the carotid media in tissue baths.
Serum leptin was elevated in mice on the high-fat diet, concordant with the development of obesity, but adrenalectomy had no effect on leptin levels (Table I).
The high fat diet used in this study led to the development of obesity over the course of five weeks as expected (Fig.
Tolerance to a glucose load was also impaired in mice after one week on the high-fat diet, suggesting the development of insulin resistance (Fig.
Diet-induced obesity led to significant increases in body weight and adiposity and to the development of glucose intolerance.
This hypothesis is particularly compelling since recent data suggest that aberrant glucocorticoid activity may play a key role in the development of the metabolic syndrome [ 10 ] .
After more chronic exposure, this delicate balance could plausibly become disrupted, leading to glucocorticoid-mediated development of the metabolic syndrome [ 10 ] . Thus interactions between insulin, leptin, and glucocorticoids, and the neuropeptide responses they generate within the melanocortin system, allow complex metabolic responses to nutritional status but may also allow the development of metabolic pathologies.
After more chronic exposure, this delicate balance could plausibly become disrupted, leading to glucocorticoid-mediated development of the metabolic syndrome [ 10 ] . Thus interactions between insulin, leptin, and glucocorticoids, and the neuropeptide responses they generate within the melanocortin system, allow complex metabolic responses to nutritional status but may also allow the development of metabolic pathologies.
Loss of myocytes is thought to contribute to the progressivedecline in left ventricular function and the development of congestiveheart failure.
Both in animal and human studies of heart failure, β-adrenergicblockade intervention appears to have beneficial effects on cardiacmyocyte function [ 1 23 24 ] . Of particularimportance, studies using carvedilol have shown remarkable improvementsin cardiac performance [ 12 13 15 16 ] andreduction in mortality in humans [ 17 ] .We have previously shown that propranolol, a nonselective β-blocker,is cardioprotective and prevents the development of heart failurein turkeys when given concurrently with furazolidone [ 21 ] . Similarly, carteolol, a nonselective β-blocker,resulted in improvement in ejection fraction, reduction in ventricularvolumes, an increase in developed pressure as well as an increasein rate of survival in our turkey model [ 18 ] . Improvementin cardiac function was associated with cellular remodeling of cardiacmyocytes.
Loss of cardiacmyocytes has been suspected to be a feature of the cardiomyopathicprocess that contributes to progressive decline in left ventricularfunction and the development of congestive heart failure [ 29 ] . Evidence supporting the concept ofmyocyte apoptosis occurrence and contribution in the progressionof heart failure has been obtained from a variety of observations,including in vitro studies, experimental animal modelsof cardiac dysfunction, and studies on cardiac tissue obtainedfrom patients with end-stage heart failure [ 5 7 8 9 29 ] .
The development of animal models of heart failure in which apoptosisis an important feature will allow the modulation of cell deathpathways through targeted interventions.
The apoptotic processis linked to the development and progression of heart failure aswell as the improvement in cardiac function seen with β-blockade.
The development of both types of ligands could therefore have important biomedical implications.
One of these ligands displays original structural and chemical characteristics, which could be used in the development of novel compounds for cancer prevention and therapy.
It will be interesting to test these molecules for anti-proliferative activity, both in vitro and in vivo . The observation that agonist 1 does not belong to any of the series of RAR ligands described so far makes this compound particularly interesting for further development.
In recent years, it has become clear that the neuronal nAChR is a valid target against a variety of diseases, including cognitive and attention deficits, Parkinson's disease, anxiety, and pain management [ 3 4 ] ; the addiction liability and other undesirable side-effects of nicotine prohibit the use of this natural product for therapeutic applications, but the active development of nAChR agonists presenting adequate receptor subtype specificity should result in improved pharmacology and potency [ 4 ] . As for most membrane proteins, information on the 3 dimensional structure of the nAChR is limited, and the best experimental structure consists of 4.6 A data from electron microscopy [ 5 ] , a resolution that does not allow for structure-based design approaches.
Previous reports have shown on other systems that a single-residue mutation in a receptor is sufficient for the development of specific ligands [ 13 14 ] . Based on the recent crystal structure of AChBP, we could propose a detailed description of the structural variations of nAChR subtypes.
Identification of T-cell epitopes associated with a particular disease can lead to the development of potential peptide vaccines.
Development of an efficient energy function for the accurate prediction of both backbone and side-chain conformations followed by an effective MHC-peptide interaction function will help to quantify the differences in peptide binding caused by MHC polymorphism and peptide diversity.
Even though structure prediction methods need further development, it is possible to produce models where functional hypotheses can be tested in a rational manner (for example, with mutagenesis experiments) through detailed analysis [ 54 ] . Additionally, structure comparisons can be used to detect functional relationships that cannot be detected by sequence information alone [ 52 ] , and micro-environment analyses that parse models for particular three-dimensional motifs [ 55 ] can be used to discern molecular function.
Developments in our ab initio sampling protocol were incorporated into our loop sampling technique.
RS performed the algorithm development, carried out the computations, evaluated the results, and drafted the manuscript.
ML helped with the algorithm development and evaluation of the results produced, and provided intellectual guidance and mentorship.
For the development of an all-encompassing potential energy function for the protein folding problem that can simulate both the thermodynamic and kinetic processes, it is argued that one must start from first principles [ 1 ] . However, given the complexity of the problem, involving thousands of atoms and an extremely large number of conformations available to these atoms, the available computational power posses a serious restriction.
Another crucial requirement for the development of potential functions using optimization-based methods is the generation of realistic and challenging decoys.
Development of the concept was done by all the three authors.
The present study was undertaken for the following reasons: 1) to assess long-term changes in tinnitus severity exhibited by patients who completed a comprehensive tinnitus management program; 2) to identify factors that contributed to changes in tinnitus severity within this population; 3) to contribute to the development and refinement of effective assessment and management procedures for tinnitus.
Variables with p < 0.10 in univariate analysis for a relationship with development of hospitalization for diabetic ketoacidosis were entered into multivariate analysis as covariates.
DT indicates a combination of delay in seeking therapy and faster development of new cavities.
To increase physician knowledge of new developments in palliation and their level of clinical competence in end-of-life care, the Institute for Ethics at the American Medical Association, with support from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, embarked on the Education for Physicians on End-of-life Care (EPEC) Project.
A key tool of the EPEC Project was the development of the EPEC Curriculum.
Physical dependence, evidenced by the development of a withdrawal syndrome when a medication is suddenly withdrawn, is not evidence of addition [ 30 ] . Similar outcomes occur in the presence of exogenous hormones and other medications that act through cellular receptors (eg, estrogens, beta-blockers, alpha-2 agonists, caffeine, etc.).
Referring physicians made the diagnosis of premature ovarian failure based on the following criteria: development of at least 4 months of amenorrhea before age 40 associated with two serum FSH levels above 40 IU/L (drawn at least 1 month apart).
Primordial germs cells originate from a small number of progenitor cells that arise in very early development.
Such therapy could have serious consequences, such as the development of osteonecrosis [ 4 ]
The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development Institutional Review Board approved the protocol.
This approach can have severe adverse consequences such as the development of osteonecrosis related to glucocorticoid therapy [ 4 ] . Here we demonstrate that detection of ovarian antibodies by indirect immunofluorescence using one specific commercial test system has poor specificity as a diagnostic test.
The complete absence of a corpus callosum in rats exposed in utero to EtOH has been documented by several studies [ 7 8 9 ] . Because in utero exposure to EtOH affects both corpus callosum development and laterality, researchers have turned to the rat model to assess the impact of EtOH on both measures.
The genu, body, and splenium were identified to confirm complete development of the corpus callosum.
A priori contrasts were conducted to determine if differences existed between groups on all dependent measures (laterality, corpus callosum [development and weight], splenium development, total brain weight, and pup weight gain).
A priori contrasts were conducted to determine if differences existed between groups on all dependent measures (laterality, corpus callosum [development and weight], splenium development, total brain weight, and pup weight gain).
As an indication of EtOH and SY fetal effects the CC weight measure does not seem to provide much relevant information, whereas the measure of splenium development clearly indicates EtOH-induced disruption.
The in utero effect of EtOH on splenium development has also been observed in humans with FAS.
Further evidence of laterality disruption was manifested by incomplete splenium development in 8 of the 10 EtOH-exposed rats.
Because callosal development was complete in rats exposed to the co-administration of SY with EtOH, it appears that SY conferred some ameliorative effects upon the corpus callosum developmental process.
Without the SY, EtOH-exposed pups clearly displayed EtOH-induced disruption to normal callosal development.
This review is unique a) by the coopera