Social media posts have called for the crew of the Aeroflot flight to Murmansk to be honoured for emergency landing and evacuating the plane after the Sukhoi Superjet 100 was reportedly struck by lightning just after take-off.

Dmitry Khlebnikov, a passenger seated in the 10th row, told journalists at Sheremetyevo airport that he was only alive thanks to the crew.

"The stewardesses saved me," he said. "The girls were standing near us. In the area where there was fuel, where it was dark, where the temperature was the highest, they brought people out and helped them get down the slide."

Television footage showed the Sukhoi Superjet 100 bouncing along the tarmac before the rear part of the plane suddenly burst into flames.
Many passengers on board SU 1492 then escaped via the plane's emergency slides that inflated after the hard landing.

The plane, which had been flying from Moscow to the northern Russian city of Murmansk, had been carrying 73 passengers and five crew members, Russia's aviation watchdog said.

Svetlana Petrenko, a spokeswoman for Russia's Investigative Committee, said in a statement that only 37 out of 78 people on board had survived, meaning 41 people had lost their lives.

The Investigative Committee said it had opened an investigation and was looking into whether the pilots had breached air safety rules.

At least two children were among the dead.

Steward Maxim Moiseyev was at the rear of the plane and when he could not open the door, he began assisting passengers towards the front doors, the state news agency Tass reported. Refusing to leave while passengers were still on board, he died in the fire, it said.

After completing military academy and serving in the army, Mr Moiseyev passed a correspondence course in civil aviation. He had worked as a steward for only 15 months.

Videos inside the plane showed passengers screaming and crying as the fire spread. The investigative committee said it was considering three possible causes of the tragedy: poor training of crew and ground personnel, technical malfunction or bad weather.