me play in middle childhood.
Children retain both aspects of play, in changing balances, throughout development.
In sum, the development of play proceeds from make-believe, with an overt imaginary situation and covert rules, to organized games, with overt rules and a covert imaginary situation.
The vast yet nearly effortless learning that takes place through pretending makes it, for Vygotsky, “the highest level of preschool development.
contributions of make-believe play to development
Was he correct that pretending in early childhood has a far-reaching impact on development, supporting the emergence and reﬁnement of a wide variety of competencies?
Comparisons of preschoolers’ sociodramatic activities with their social nonpretend pursuits, such as drawing pictures or putting puzzles together in the company of agemates, supports Vygotsky’s view of make-believe as a “zone” in which children enhance their own development.
In view of these ﬁndings, it is not surprising that 4- and 5-year-olds who spend more time at sociodramatic play are advanced in intellectual development and are judged more socially competent by their teachers.
Yet attention becomes more sustained over early childhood—a development that equips children for concentrated involvement, which will be essential for success once they enter school.
What does research say about the role of make-believe in children’s literacy development?
In one of the most extensive studies tracing the development of make-believe play, psychologists Wendy Haight and Peggy Miller followed nine children from 1 to 4 years of age, repeatedly visiting their homes to make intensive observations of their pretending.
Relentlessly barraging children with information that communicates “at” rather than “with” them fails to involve them in dialogue and interferes with optimum development of play.
In sum, quality of adult–child social engagement, both within and outside of make-believe play, has much to do with the potential of such play to lead children’s development forward.
Vygotsky’s theory tells us that adults are active agents in children’s social development.
Martha Bronson’s The Right Stuff for Children Birth to Age 880 is an excellent resource for selecting play materials that support development in early childhood.
Six- to 8-year-olds continue to like role play, and teachers can use it to foster their academic development.
As leaders in children’s development, parents and teachers are in a prime position to design and inﬂuence children’s play worlds in ways that shield them from acquiring materialistic and violent attitudes and behaviors and that accentuate play’s cognitive, emotional, and social beneﬁts.
These include one-sided, contradictory messages in the parenting-advice literature; career pressures that impinge on parent involvement in children’s lives; abysmally weak American child-care services to assist employed parents in their child-rearing roles; cultural violence and excessive materialism permeating children’s worlds; schools with less than optimal conditions for children’s learning; and impediments to granting children with deﬁcits and disabilities social experiences that maximize their development.
In that survey, I asked parents to list any questions about young children’s development and learning that interested or worried them.
When parents are familiar with principles that are grounded in contemporary theory and research on children’s development, they can better deal with the quandaries generated by the changing home, school, and community contexts in which today’s children grow up.
Although self-esteem and favorable development are related, high self-esteem does not necessarily cause effortful behavior and achievement.
Parents who deliver praise not based on real attainment actually undermine their child’s development.
Fortunately, children can just as easily absorb worthwhile messages and information from TV, so parental guidance in this area can have great beneﬁts for development.
The warmth, exploration, conversation, and fun involved in this and other joint parent–child activities strengthen emotional bonds and foster both cognitive and social development.
A common parental worry is that computers will channel children into solitary pursuits and disrupt their social development.
How can parents capitalize on the computer’s potential for spurring their child’s development?
Parents often assume that the play materials children choose are the ones that are best for their development.
•How will the toy help provide a foundation for my child’s future learning and development?
Some parents show their child books with pictures of fetuses, identifying those that are about the same age as the forthcoming sibling and discussing the baby’s development as it progresses.
Consider Carl, one of the most obstinate participants in a study of the combined impact that temperament and child rearing have on long-term development.
How can a parent identify the difference between a language disorder and normal language development?
If your child’s language development is delayed by several months when compared to norms for early language milestones, then your child might have a language disorder.
Because of wide individual differences, it’s sometimes hard to tell a language disorder from normal variation in language development.
Typically, children with hearing impairments are not identiﬁed until 12 to 25 months of age, when speech and language development is already delayed.
Newborn testing takes only a few minutes and permits problems to be addressed early, preventing negative consequences for all aspects of psychological development.
Most often, they consider delaying the start of school for boys, who as a group tend to lag behind girls in cognitive and social development.
Notice that each of the options just mentioned assumes that readiness is inherent in the child—that a 5-year-old must have reached a certain level of development to proﬁt from classroom experiences.
Consider, once again, the concept of the “zone,” in which teaching leads development.
65 Part of the reason for girls’ advantage in literacy development is that they undergo a faster rate of physical maturation, believed to promote slightly earlier development of the left hemisphere of the cerebral cortex, where language functions are housed for most people.
65 Part of the reason for girls’ advantage in literacy development is that they undergo a faster rate of physical maturation, believed to promote slightly earlier development of the left hemisphere of the cerebral cortex, where language functions are housed for most people.
Divorce is invariably painful for children, and learning and development can be affected—temporarily and long term.
Chapter 5 of this book is devoted to the development of children with deﬁcits and disabilities.
When cerebral palsy results in speech, hearing, or visual impairments, promoting language proﬁciency through alternative means is crucial for enhancing development.
The development of Chicano Muralismo grew out of the political context of the Chicano civil rights movement, a nationalistic political struggle waged by Chicanos during the 1960s.
The fullest development comes in Aristotle’s Politics and in the Nicomachean Ethics.
Origins of Order and At Home in the Universe give good grounds to think that much of the order in organisms, from the origin of life itself to the stunning order in the development of a newborn child from a fertilized egg, does not reflect selection alone.
The form of the aperiodicity will contain some kind of microscopic code that somehow controls the development of the organism.
Some vast network of regulatory interactions among genes and their products provides the mechanism that marshals the genome into the dance of development.
Clues that such a toolbox is experimentally feasible come from many recent developments, including the discovery that antibody molecules, evolved to bind molecular features called epitopes, can actually act as catalysts.
It was a profound insight in the development of equilibrium thermodynamics to recognize that the energy present in the thermal motions of an equilibrium gas system could not be extracted to do work.
An important step in “saving” the second law was taken by Leo Szilard, who also conceived of the nuclear chain reaction one day in London and helped set in motion the development of the atomic bomb and atomic energy.
It is the joint dynamical behavior of such genetic networks, plus the remaining cellular network of proteins and other molecular interactions, that controls cell behavior, including development from the fertilized egg to the adult.
I would note that such transient reversals happen all the time in normal development.
These cascades of alterations guide development and cell dierentiation.
We have spun out a biotechnology company, CIStem Molecular, that aims to clone the small cis acting DNA regions that control turning genes on and o in development and disease; a European daughter company, Euro-Bios; as well as EXA, a company spun out with NASDAQ to make tools for financial markets.
The coming into existence of the enabling constraints of law is as central to economic development and growth as any other aspect of the bubbling activity.
The United States must support such developments.
America's strategy should be a coalition strategy, that includes Muslim nations as partners in its development and implementation.
Economic development remains a distant hope.
He has embraced the Arab Human Development Report, which was highly critical of the Arab world's political, economic, and social failings and called for greater economic and political reform.
The policies that support economic development and reform also have political implications.
Recommendation: A comprehensive U.S. strategy to counter terrorism should include economic policies that encourage development, more open societies, and opportunities for people to improve the lives of their families and to enhance prospects for their children's future.
The development of terrorist indicators has hardly begun, and behavioral cues remain important.
The solution, requiring more research and development, is likely to combine radio frequency technology with biometric identifiers.
The current patchwork of border screening systems, including several frequent traveler programs, should be consolidated with the USVISIT system to enable the development of an integrated system, which in turn can become part of the wider screening plan we suggest.
These laws required the development of strategic plans to describe how the new department and TSA would provide security for critical parts of the U.S. transportation sector.
Many of the act's provisions are relatively noncontroversial, updating America's surveillance laws to reflect technological developments in a digital age.
An unintended consequence of