ior to the brain.
Study of their development is an appropriate sequel to previous work on members of the Chondrostei - the paddlefish, Polyodon [ 12] and the sturgeons.
The teleost ysl has important mechanical and communications functions in early development [ 19, 20, 21].
Garpike embryos, however, possess combinations of features whose investigation should prove valuable in the areas of development, evolution and taxonomy.
Furthermore, identification of ESTs derived from mouse and human embryonic cDNA libraries along with our Northern data on mouse embryo RNA indicate that mNoc is expressed early in development.
In the latter experiments the effects of proteolysis and its inhibition on the development of the olfactory nerve itself were tested using axonal, glial and neuronal outgrowth markers.
Unilateral insertion of PB coated beads into the olfactory placode of stage 17 embryos did not disrupt the development of either axonal or glial components of the olfactory nerve between stages 18-21 (Table 3).
As the length of each developmental stage varies [ 22 ] , it is difficult to determine precisely the amount of time by which biochemical development of the axons is accelerated.
Implantation of trypsin coated beads at stage 17 had no effect on either the timing of nerve development (axonal or glial) or the biochemical differentiation of the axons.
The use of these beads is an established method widely utilized to deliver exogenous proteins during development.
For example, in their study of limb development, Fallon et al.
The basis for the development of this planar or tissue polarity has principally been studied in Drosophila [ 1 2 3 4 ] where it is under the control of the frizzled ( fz ) pathway [ 5 ] . Many Drosophila epidermal cells produce cuticular hairs that are outgrowths from the apical surface of pupal epidermal cells.
The development of epidermal hairs has principally been studied on the wing where each pupal cell produces a single distally pointing hair.
To determine if the fz pathway played a role in arista development we examined the aristae of various fz pathway mutants [ 1 5 ] . We found that multiple wing hairs ( mwh ), which results in an average of almost 4 hairs per cell on the wing also resulted in the formation of multipled and branched laterals.
The altered location for lateral initiation in fz and other mutants was similar to their phenotype in the wing [ 5 ] . Prior to hair initiation in wing cells Fz, Dsh, Fmi and Dgo accumulate on the distal side of wing cells (Stan and Dgo are also thought to accumulate on the proximal side) [ 9 10 11 12 13 ] . To see if this could be the case for lateral development we examined the distribution of Fz in developing arista using a Fz-GFP encoding transgene gene.
We next attempted to determine the critical time for in function in lateral development using temperature shift experiments with the temperature sensitive allele in II53 [ 20 ] . On the wing this allele results in a large phenotypic difference when pupae grown at the restrictive versus permissive temperatures.
Lateral growth takes place over more than 18 hours at 29°C and more than 30 hours at 18°C giving us a wide window for shift experiments [ 8 ] . In shift experiments we found that the crucial time for in function in lateral development was around the time of lateral initiation (26 hours at 29°C and 52 hrs at 18°C) (Fig.
We compared the multipled lateral phenotypes of in and fy single mutants and fy; in double mutants and found no difference consistent with in and fy functioning in the same process in lateral development (Table 1).
When we examined the development of fz mutant laterals by phalloidin staining we found that lateral initiation was not as restricted to the distal part of cells as is the case in wild type (Fig.
The distal accumulation of Fz-GFP could be detected until late in lateral development.
It was reported previously that Fmi/Stan protein accumulated to a higher level in the PI cell that forms the bristle lineage [ 22 ] . Previous experiments have shown that Fz regulates orientation of the spindle in the division of the PI cell of the bristle sense organ lineage and it has been thought that this is the way that fz regulated bristle polarity [ 4 6 ] . Our observations suggest that fz may also play a later role in specifying bristle polarity that is analogous to its role in regulating hair and lateral development.
In this way wild type laterals resemble fz mutant wing cells [ 5 ] . Thus, early in their development laterals are not close to the junctional complex or the prominent cortical cytoskeleton at the cell periphery and are unlikely to be getting any orientation guidance in this way.
It is also worth considering that the elongated shape of the lateral forming cells becomes much more extreme as development proceeds (Fig 4) [ 8 ] . This brings the laterals close to the cell edges that are parallel to the proximal distal axis of the central core and the junctional complexes at these edges could provide orientation guidance.
Previous studies on in and fy function in regulating wing hair development have focused on their role in regulating the site for hair initiation [ 5 20 ] . Observations reported in this paper show that multiple laterals associated with in and fy mutants can arise either from independent initiation events or from the splitting of an elongating lateral.
These shift experiments showed that the essential time for in function in lateral development is around the time of lateral initiation.
This is similar to what we previously found for in function in wing hair development [ 20 ] . It is interesting that the consequences of a lack of in function in laterals are manifested some hours after the end of the in temperature sensitive period.
Previous observations had indicated that the fz pathway functioned in the development of planar polarity in hairs, bristles and ommatidia [ 5 6 7 14 ] . Consistent with much current thinking on signal transduction pathways it has been suggested that there is a core group of fz pathway of genes that function similarly in different cell types [ 2 ] . Downstream genes would function to interpret the signal from the core group of genes in a cell type specific way.
In this paper we provide evidence that a modified version of the frizzled pathway regulates the development of arista laterals.
After observation water was removed from the slides and the pupae were then kept in a humid chamber at 25°C for further development and observations.
Of the factors that contribute to specifying cell fate during development, Wnt proteins are among the most attractive candidates to use in such in vitro experiments.
Wnt proteins control numerous aspects of development, ranging from stem cell control to differentiation and cell polarity [ 1 2 ] . It has been problematic however to test directly whether Wnt proteins can be used as reagents in cell culture, because working with soluble Wnt proteins is difficult and few cell lines are known to respond to Wnt proteins.
The overall pattern of gene expression observed in response to Wnt has important implications for the role of Wnt signaling in development and cancer.
Mis-regulation of Wnt signaling leads to the development of several human cancers, including colon carcinomas and melanoma [ 1 ] . Canonical Wnt signaling initiates in the binding of a Wnt ligand to its cell surface receptor, members of the frizzled gene family, along with the co-receptor LRP5/6 [ 2 3 ] , leading to changes in the activities of cytoplasmic effectors resulting in the stabilization of beta-catenin protein.
SL-1 is a matrix metalloproteinase that can alter ECM-mediated signaling events during development [ 29 30 31 ] . Both SL-1 and Wnt-5a have roles in mammary gland development and are elevated in certain breast cancers [ 32 33 34 35 ] , although Wnt-5a is reduced in other types of breast cancer [ 36 ] .
SL-1 is a matrix metalloproteinase that can alter ECM-mediated signaling events during development [ 29 30 31 ] . Both SL-1 and Wnt-5a have roles in mammary gland development and are elevated in certain breast cancers [ 32 33 34 35 ] , although Wnt-5a is reduced in other types of breast cancer [ 36 ] .
The initiating events of development of Dictyostelium include sensing starvation and cell density, which in turn result in the dispersed cells acquiring the ability to aggregate.
The mechanism of sensing the density of starved cells insures that aggregation occurs only when there are sufficient numbers of starved cells to form aggregates and subsequent structures of appropriate size for optimized spore dispersal [ 2 3 4 ] . Hence, starvation and a threshold of cell density are the two known prerequisites for the transition from growth to development.
Conditioned medium factor (CMF) is a 80 kDa glycoprotein that is essential for early development [ 3 4 10 ] . CMF is sequestered in vegetative cells and is secreted upon starvation [ 4 ] . A critical concentration of extracellular CMF is required for subsequent development as CMF is involved in regulating aggregation, cAMP pulsing, and early developmental events [ 2 3 11 ] .
Conditioned medium factor (CMF) is a 80 kDa glycoprotein that is essential for early development [ 3 4 10 ] . CMF is sequestered in vegetative cells and is secreted upon starvation [ 4 ] . A critical concentration of extracellular CMF is required for subsequent development as CMF is involved in regulating aggregation, cAMP pulsing, and early developmental events [ 2 3 11 ] .
Although recent investigations have revealed several components involved in regulating the initiation of development [ 15 16 17 18 ] , little or no information exists on how the cells sense starvation and in particular amino acid deprivation.
Early studies indicated that depletion of amino acids and not other nutrients is essential for initiation of development [ 19 20 21 ] . Upon amino acid starvation, among other events there is a substantial decrease in the rate of initiation of protein synthesis, resulting in a reduction in size and amount of polysomes and accumulation of free ribosomes [ 19 22 23 ] . It is believed that the decrease in protein synthesis in response to starvation occurs post-transcriptionally, since adding back amino acids rapidly restores protein synthesis and does not require new mRNA synthesis [ 22 ] .
We reasoned that a GCN2-like protein might be involved in sensing amino acid starvation in Dictyostelium and in regulating the growth to development transition.
The findings presented herein indicate that neither of the ifk genes is involved in initiating development.
However disruption of the ifkA gene resulted in several defects during the first few hours of development.
The increased phosphorylation by IfkA normally occurs from 1 to 7 hours after the onset of development, resulting in a secondary shift from polysomes to free ribosomes for bulk mRNA.
Expression of ifkAand ifkBmRNA during growth and development
RNA was isolated from the parental or "