culture.
It leads parents, like Noah and Suzanne, who are on the cusp of a dramatic period of development in their 2-year-old son’s life, to express grave doubts about their own importance.
The central idea of sociocultural theory is that the child and his or her social surroundings join to provide direction to development; participation in social life guides and energizes the child’s mastery of new, culturally adaptive skills.
78 By the 1980s, many American psychologists and educators—doubting the Piagetian view of development and desiring to account for wide variation in children’s competencies—embraced Vygotsky’s ideas with enthusiasm.
These undergo a natural course of development through direct contact with the environment during the ﬁrst two years of life, similar to the process of exploration and discovery described by Piaget.
The milestones just cited are broad universals of development.
This leads to a crucial change in development.
The natural line of development makes closer contact with its surrounding social context, merges with it, and is transformed by it.
Vygotsky emphasized that to understand children’s development, it is necessary to understand the social situations adults devise for them.
Because Vygotsky regarded language as the major bridge between our social and mental worlds, he viewed language acquisition as the most signiﬁcant milestone in children’s cognitive development.
The sociocultural vision is very dierent from behaviorism, which views development as directly imposed, or shaped, by external forces.
The core lesson to be learned from our discussion so far is that development is a matter of children’s genetic/biological potential undergoing a cultural metamorphosis, a process that cannot take place without parents and teachers as thoughtful and committed participants in children’s lives.
From the sociocultural perspective, parents and teachers are leaders in awakening children’s minds and fostering their development; children are apprenticed to these experts.
Vygotsky, who studied and wrote about children’s development in Russia in the early twentieth century, was deeply interested in how interdependency—children’s close ties to their community—can pave the way to competence and autonomy.
An overwhelming consensus of research shows that sensitive caregiving—responding to the baby’s cries for physical care and stimulation promptly, consistently, and appropriately—supports the development of a secure attachment relationship.
To answer this question, Vygotsky proposed a special concept: the zone of proximal development.
Keeping it in mind can help parents and teachers interact with children in ways that lead their development forward.
Vygotsky deﬁned the zone of proximal development as the distance between the child’s actual development (the tasks the child can do individually) and the child’s potential development, “determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers.”
Vygotsky deﬁned the zone of proximal development as the distance between the child’s actual development (the tasks the child can do individually) and the child’s potential development, “determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers.”
Vygotsky deﬁned the zone of proximal development as the distance between the child’s actual development (the tasks the child can do individually) and the child’s potential development, “determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more capable peers.”
Research documents several communicative ingredients that consistently foster development, in children of diverse ages and across a wide range of tasks.
This joint attention to objects and events fosters early language development.
Mothers who maintain high levels of it during play have infants who comprehend more language, produce meaningful gestures and words earlier, and show faster vocabulary development between 1 and 2 years of age.
The communicative competence inherent in intersubjectivity blossoms within a zone of proximal development in which parents and other signiﬁcant adults are “stimulating, attentive, conﬁrmatory, interpretive, and highly supportive.”
37 Parent–child intersubjectivity makes a vital contribution to the development of attachment, attention, language, and understanding of others’ perspectives.
To promote development, the adult varies his or her assistance to ﬁt the child’s changing level of performance, with the goal of keeping the child in the “zone.”
41 Indeed, self-regulation is so important for children’s cognitive and social development that we will return to it repeatedly in later chapters when we consider how other experiences—children’s self-directed language, make-believe play, and learning in school—contribute to it.
Children’s conversations with elaborative-style parents increase in complexity as language development proceeds, creating a zone of proximal development in which narrative competence expands.
Children’s conversations with elaborative-style parents increase in complexity as language development proceeds, creating a zone of proximal development in which narrative competence expands.
“ 68 Furthermore, the richness of 6-year-olds’ evaluative remarks can be predicted from their mother’s evaluative statements in an adult–child conversation 3 years earlier69—a ﬁnding that underscores, once again, parents’ vital role in creating a “zone” for narrative development.
According to psychologist Jerome Bruner, learning to negotiate diering viewpoints through narrative is a crowning achievement of human development.
Gratifying social ties, in turn, serve as vital contexts for further cognitive and social development.
Research consistently demonstrates that language development in early childhood is strongly related to later reading competence—and to academic achievement in general during elementary school.
Conversations with adults are especially powerful contributors to early childhood language proﬁciency and, in turn, to literacy development.
Typically, an adult reads while a child listens—a format that is beneﬁcial to early literacy development93 but that cannot guarantee the child’s attention, involvement, and comprehension.
When parents and teachers use dialogic reading consistently over several weeks to several months, children show gains in language development, print knowledge, and writing progress that are still present six months to a year later.
Indeed, joint participation in make-believe with more expert cultural members is so important for development during early childhood that I devote an entire chapter to it.
Although grocery shopping with Ricky might take 10 or 15 minutes longer than otherwise, it has wide-ranging beneﬁts for his development.
104 Scores on that instrument consistently predict early childhood mental development, no matter what the child’s socioeconomic or ethnic background.
Despite widespread public concern about the impact of TV on children’s development, many parents do little to regulate or guide their children’s viewing.
Parents who intervene in their child’s TV viewing so it is in keeping with the “zone” transform the TV medium from a negative to a positive force in the child’s mental life, and they promote favorable cognitive and social development in many other ways as well.
120 Although the family, Bronfenbrenner noted, continues to have primary responsibility for children’s character development, it lacks the strength needed to do the job because parents and children no longer spend enough time together.
Such togetherness aects a child’s development in countless ways, even through what appear to be triﬂing pursuits—help with homework; outings to the grocery store, the park, and the local library; dinnertime conversations; discussions of exciting or scary TV shows; and bedtime stories.
Narrative conversation also fosters language development and emergent literacy, which greatly ease the task of learning to read and write when children get to school.
Through dialogues with children, adults play a formative role in the development of children’s self-conceptions, sensitivity to others, cognition, academic knowledge, morality, social skills, and capacity to use language to gain control over thought and behavior.
In the next chapter, I address a question that has long intrigued child development theorists and puzzled many parents and teachers: Why do children talk to themselves?
Eminent child development theorists of the past attached great importance to the role of make-believe play in early development.
Eminent child development theorists of the past attached great importance to the role of make-believe play in early development.
Nevertheless, Piaget was convinced that by itself, make-believe play does little to advance children’s development.
Sociodramatic play, involving joint make-believe with a partner, Piaget claimed, is not under way until age 3. As with other aspects of Piaget’s theory, the direction of development for make-believe is from purely individual, egocentric symbols to social play and shared understanding.
Vygotsky’s theory has been the wellspring of our recent appreciation of the profoundly social nature of even very young children’s imaginative play—and its wide-ranging inﬂuence on cognitive and social development.
Vygotsky’s View: A Zone of Proximal Development
Consider the following frequently quoted remarks, taken from a brief lecture in which Vygotsky eloquently summed up his conviction that pretend play is a central force in children’s development:
[Make-believe] play creates a zone of proximal development in the child.
As in the focus of a magnifying glass, play contains all developmental tendencies in condensed form and is itself a major source of development.
How do the make-believe scenes just described, and others like them, serve as major sources of development?
Together, these features make fantasy play a supreme contributor to the development of self-regulation—one that extends the impact of adult teaching and example more than any other early childhood activity.
To understand make-believe play’s role in development, let’s take a closer look at each of its unique features.
10 In helping children disengage thought from reality, pretend play is vital preparation for the much later development of abstract thinking, in which symbols are manipulated and hypothetical ideas are evaluated without referring to currently existing, real world conditions.
As we will see shortly, people renowned for their creative accomplishments often report that make-believe play was a frequent, highly inﬂuential aspect of their early development.
Vygotsky regarded the sociodramatic play of the preschool years as essential for further development of play—speciﬁcally, for movement toward ga